Chakdara (چکدرہ) is a city in the Lower Dir District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. It's the second largest city in Dir Lower after Timergara. It serves as a gateway of Malakand Division. It's located in the center of Malakand Division at the entrance of the Lower Dir District, also near the entrance of the Swat District. The Swat Expressway also touches this area Chakdara interchange (Pul Chowki). Chakdara is about 130 km far from Peshawar,  40km from Mingora and 38 km from Timergara. 
Chakdara has been an important center for the last 3500 years and is littered with remains of the Gandhara grave culture, Buddhist sites, and Hindu Shahi forts.[citation needed]  The ancient route from Afghanistan via Nawa Pass and Katkala Pass/Zwalm Pul (Bridge).[clarification needed] The Swat River also crosses Chakdara.
The Mughals built a fort here in 1586, occupied in 1895 by the British, who built the present fort in 1896 and were forced to defend it during the Siege of Malakand in 1897.[citation needed]
Buddhist sculpture of the first to seventh centuries from nearby sites and Hindu Shahi artefacts are now displayed at Chakdara Museum. 
The most important site in Chakdara is Damkot Hill. The top of Damkot Hill has been excavated and houses with pottery and jewellery have been discovered. These items are now displayed in the Saidu Sharif Museum.[citation needed]
At the foot of Damkot Hill at Salami, there is an early graveyard. Early settlers buried partially cremated bodies surrounded by everyday utensils. The graves were sealed by large stone slabs.[citation needed]
A Buddhist stupa and monastery of the first century AD were excavated by Ahmad Hasan Dani in 1962–65.[citation needed] There are some Buddhist carvings at the foot of the hill. During the Hindu Shahi period a fort was built here which was destroyed in the 11th century. In the 19th century the British occupied this hill. Behind Damkot Hill at Chat pat is the site of a monastery of the late fourth century.  The sculpture from this monastery is displayed in Chakdara Museum.
The "Andandheri" or Andaan Dheri is a Buddhist archaeological site in Pakistan, about 4 miles north of Chakdara, excavated by Professor Ahmad Hasan Dani in 1966, for the purpose of establishing a chronology of Gandharan art and architecture. It has been known as the Uchh Stupa, being one mile south of Uchh village. Locally, it has been called Andanheri, meaning "round mound." Even after the site had been looted over the years, Dani's team was still able to "recover" 534 sculptures.[1]
Andaan Dheri, an important Buddhist site, is located 7 km north of Chakdara Bridge opposite to Gul Abad Degree College for Boys near the village of Uchh. According to the Buddhist pilgrim Xuanzang this site was connected with a legend about Buddha. According to the legend, Buddha changed himself into a great serpent lying dead in the valley in order to save the people from famine. The starving people cut pieces from the body and fed themselves.
According to another tradition, Gandhara is also thought to be the location of the mystical Lake Dhanakosha, birthplace of Padmasambhava, founder of Tibetan Buddhism. The Kagyu sect of Tibetan Buddhism identifies the lake with the Andaan Dheri stupa. A spring was said to flow from the base of the stupa to form the lake. Archaeologists have found the stupa but no spring or lake can be identified.
Three kilometres (1.9 mi) from Andannd Dherai Stupa, there is the Hindu Shahi fort of Kamal Khan Chena (spring, Urdu: چشمہ), which is now in ruins. From this fort a track leads to Nimogram Buddhist Monastery and Stupa. It has three main stupas, which identify three principles of Buddhism; Buddha the teacher, Dharma, Sangha (the Buddhist order). Near Chakdara Bridge there are ruins of the Hindu Shahi Period and stupas at Haibatgram, Top Dara and Landakai.
The University of Malakand is located in Chakdara, and other important educational institutions are here, including
Xeranoplium flavofemoratum is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Chemsak and Linsley in 1963.[1]

This Hesperophanini article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Officials for the 2010 FIFA World Cup are selected from a pool of 30 trios of referees and assistant referees announced by the association football governing body, FIFA, on 5 February 2010.[1] The final cut was selected from a group of 38 referees revealed in October 2008,[2] themselves whittled down from an initial group of 54 selected for the Refereeing Assistance Programme in 2007.[3] From the quarter-finals onwards, the pool of referees was reduced to 19.[citation needed]
In 2007, the FIFA Executive Committee set up the Refereeing Assistance Programme (RAP) to help prepare the referees in contention to officiate at the 2010 World Cup; 54 were selected to make up the initial group. Over the following months, they were assessed based on their performances at FIFA tournaments, RAP seminars and in their domestic leagues.[3] In September 2008, 53 of the original 54 referees attended an "Elite Referee" seminar in Zürich, Switzerland, where their technical, physical and mental abilities were analysed.[4] The results were presented to the FIFA Referees' Committee, who preselected 38 trios of referees and their assistants on 22 October.[2]
From this group of 38, ten trios – representing all six confederations – were selected to referee at the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup, hosted by South Africa as preparation for the World Cup 12 months later.[5] This assignment was viewed by FIFA as part of the referees' assessment, to ensure that they are prepared for the technical and physical demands of the World Cup in South Africa.[6]
The final 30 trios of officials were announced at a meeting of the FIFA Referees Committee in Zürich on 5 February 2010. The trios were assessed using the same criteria as for the original cut.[1] Following their selection, each official underwent FIFA's pre-competition medical assessment (PCMA) at the Schulthess Clinic in Zürich between 25 February and 6 March.[7]
However, on 27 May 2010, two referees – Carlos Amarilla and Mohamed Benouza – and their assistants were removed from the final list, following the assistant referees' failure in the standard fitness tests, the same tests as those held in Zurich. Uruguayan referee Martín Vázquez and his assistant referees were called up as a replacement trio.[8]
For the quarter-finals onwards, FIFA trimmed their list of match officials, allowing 10 teams of referees to return home. The teams sent home were those of Roberto Rosetti (Italy), Jorge Larrionda (Uruguay), Stéphane Lannoy (France), Massimo Busacca (Switzerland), Martin Hansson (Sweden), Koman Coulibaly (Mali), Subkhiddin Mohd Salleh (Malaysia), Peter O'Leary (New Zealand), Martín Vázquez (Uruguay) and Joel Aguilar (El Salvador).[9]
Air-to-air combat is the engagement of combat aircraft in warfare in which primarily fixed-wing aircraft attempt to destroy enemy aircraft using guns, rockets and missiles. The Korean War saw the greatest amount of air-to-air combat since World War II. During the war the United States claimed to have shot down around 700 fighters.[A 1][2] After the war the U.S. Air Force reviewed its figures in an investigation code-named Sabre Measure Charlie and downgraded the kill ratio of the North American F-86 Sabre against the Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15 by half from 14:1 to 7:1.[2] One of the factors inflating US numbers was that most dogfights took place over enemy-controlled area. The only way to confirm kills was through gun camera photography. USAF pilots were credited with a kill if the gun camera showed their guns striking the enemy aircraft even if no one actually saw it go down.[3] However, Soviet Air Force kill claims were also highly exaggerated, based upon inherent flaws in their film grading procedures. For instance, the S-13 gun camera was not aligned with either the gunsight or either cannons' ballistics. It ran only while the firing buttons were depressed. Film graders commonly included unit commanders and political commisars who would confirm a "kill"—sometimes even if one had not been claimed by a pilot—when the camera's crosshairs touched the target for two movie frames. During the first 16 months of combat Soviet V-VS units claimed 218 F-86s destroyed when only 36 (35 to the two elite IADs and one to the 50th IAD) had been lost. This results in a 600 per cent inflation rate in victory credits over actual Sabres destroyed. However, these figures are complicated by the fact that the Americans routinely attributed combat losses to landing accidents and other causes.[4]
The Vietnam War saw a move away from cannon fire to air-to-air missiles.[5] Although US forces maintained air supremacy throughout the war, there were still occasional dogfights and US and North Vietnamese aces. The North Vietnamese side claimed the Vietnam People's Air Force had 17 aces throughout the war, including Nguyễn Văn Cốc, who is also the top ace of Vietnam War with 9 kills: seven acknowledged by the United States Air Force.
During the 1947 conflict over Jammu and Kashmir, the Indian Air Force did not engage the Pakistan Air Force in air-to-air combat; however, it did provide effective transport and close air support to the Indian Army troops.[6]
On 10 April 1959, an Indian English Electric Canberra was shot down while performing a Reconnaissance mission over Rawalpindi. The Canberra was shot down by a Pakistani F-86 Sabre flown by Flight Lieutenant M Younis of the No. 15 Squadron. The two crew members of the Canberra ejected and were later arrested by Pakistani authorities, this incident also marked the first aerial victory of the Pakistan Air Force.[7][8][9]
The Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 was the first time the Indian Air Force actively engaged an enemy air force.[10] By the time the conflict had ended, India had lost between 65 and 75 aircraft while Pakistan lost 20 aircraft.[11][12]
During the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971, the Indian Air Force lost 45 aircraft while the Pakistani Air Force lost 75.[13]
During the Iran–Iraq War of 1980–88, there were nearly 1,000 air-to-air engagements between Iran and Iraq, including the only known instances of helicopters dogfighting and shooting down other helicopters.[14] The Falklands War of 1982 witnessed air combat between Argentine and British military aircraft. The Falkland Islands' runways were short and thus unable to support fighter jets, forcing Argentina to launch fighters from the mainland, which had an adverse effect on their loiter time. The Argentine forces lost 23 aircraft in air-to-air combat, out of a total of 134 fixed wing aircraft and helicopters lost during the conflict. During the 1990–91 Persian Gulf War 33 of Iraqi Armed Forces' 750 fixed wing aircraft were claimed as downed (23 were confirmed), compared to 14 coalition aircraft claimed as downed (4 losses are confirmed, one F/A-18 Hornet and three UAVs[15]).[16][17]
Michael Mmoh was the defending champion[1] but chose not to defend his title.
Adam Walton won the title after defeating Nicolas Moreno de Alboran 6–4, 3–6, 7–5 in the final.
Tang-e Bid (Persian: تنگ بيد, also Romanized as Tang-e Bīd)[1] is a village in Yeylaq Rural District, in the Central District of Buin va Miandasht County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 36, in 7 families.[2]
This Buin va Miandasht County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Liu Futong (simplified Chinese: 刘福通; traditional Chinese: 劉福通; pinyin: Liú Fútōng; d. 1363) was a leader in the Red Turban Rebellion during the late Yuan dynasty of China. He had a major presence in northern China and was killed by Zhang Shicheng in 1363.
Liu Futong was recruited by the northern Chinese White Lotus sectarian leader Han Shantong in 1351. Earlier that year, the Yuan official Toqto'a had mobilized 150,000 poor farmers to redirect the Yellow River. Though the project was ultimately successful, it provided a surplus of disgruntled workers in northern China. Liu Futong successfully recruited many of these workers to the Red Turban Rebellion; this resulted in a massive increase in rebel activity from 1351 onwards. After Han Shantong was captured and executed by Yuan forces, his son, Han Lin'er, escaped with Liu Futong to Yingzhou where Liu established a base of operations.[1] The Mingtongji, a chronicle of the Ming dynasty, starts in 1351 with Liu Futong's rebellion.[2] Liu conquered southern Henan in 1352.[3]
Han Lin'er was proclaimed emperor of the restored Song dynasty in March 1355. Though a figurehead, Han's legitimacy as Song emperor (and Liu's personal ideological adherence to the White Lotus sect) helped maintain cohesion amongst the Northern Red Turbans, something which their Southern counterparts lacked. Liu Futong's success as a leader was otherwise mixed. His army captured Kaifeng, the first capital of the Song dynasty, in June 1358[4] before making it the new capital. This led to a surge of support that allowed Liu to raid Shaanxi and Shanxi,[5] capture parts of Anhui and Shandong, and send his general, Mao Gui, on an expedition to the Yuan capital, Dadu.[6]
Liu Futong's success was short-lived, however, and Yuan commander Chaghan Temur recaptured Kaifeng in September 1359. Chaghan pushed Liu first to Yingzhou, then to Bozhou, then to Anfeng. This effectively ended the expansionist phase of the Northern Red Turbans.[7] They would, with the exception of Zhu Yuanzhang (the future founder of the Ming dynasty), completely disappear by 1362. Zhu held nominal allegiance to Han Lin'er's Song regime. Thus, after rebel leader Zhang Shicheng's general Lü Zhen captured Anfeng and killed Liu Futong in February 1363, Zhu Yuanzhang and his general, Xu Da, rescued Han Lin'er in March. This rescue attempt was seriously risky because Zhu Yuanzhang was fighting his main rival, Chen Youliang, at the same time, but historian Frederick W. Mote says that the campaign was necessary for maintaining cohesion amongst Zhu's generals.[8]
Macroptila extensa is a moth of the subfamily Arctiinae. It was described by Rothschild in 1912. It is found in Peru.[1]

This Lithosiini-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Anderson Racing Karts is a manufacturer of open-wheel racing cars, specifically Superkarts. Andersons have won championships in all parts of the racing world and are current holders of European Superkart Championship, as well as titles in Great Britain, Germany, Sweden, Australia and New Zealand.
Ashgabat railway station (Turkmen: Aşgabat demirýol menzili) is the main railway station in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan. It was originally built in 1888, but had to be rebuilt after an earthquake in 1948. The station is operated by the Türkmendemirýollary.
The station was built in 1888, but was completely demolished in 1948 by the Ashgabat earthquake. It was rebuilt in 1950 on the foundations of the old railway station.
In 2009 the building was given a new look. The Turkish company "Belda Insaat" designed and radically reconstructed the railway station.
There are 7 train routes, 2 for transporting good and five for passenger service. The train from Ashgabat to Serakhs leaves the station twice a week, the rest are daily departures.[1]
Passenger trains:
Transportation of goods:
37°56′35″N 58°23′45″E﻿ / ﻿37.94306°N 58.39583°E﻿ / 37.94306; 58.39583
Novoplotava (Russian: Новоплотава) is a rural locality (a settlement) in Michurinsky Selsoviet, Khabarsky District, Altai Krai, Russia. The population was 277 as of 2013.[2] It was founded in 1786. There are 4 streets.
Novoplotava is located 28 km southeast of Khabary (the district's administrative centre) by road. Michurinskoye is the nearest rural locality.[3]
This Khabarsky District location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Guanggu 5th Road Station (Chinese: 光谷五路站), is a station on Line 11 and Line 19 of the Wuhan Metro. It entered revenue service on October 1, 2018. It is located in Hongshan District.[1][2]
The station became an interchange station with the opening of Line 19 on December 30, 2023.

This article about a railway station in Hubei is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
José Ramón Beca Borrego (born 8 April 1953) is a Spanish-born equestrian, who has been competing for Uruguay since 2015. He competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics, the 1996 Summer Olympics and the 2000 Summer Olympics.[1]
After switching to Uruguay, Beca competed in dressage at three Pan American Games.
This biographical article related to Spanish equestrianism is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article related to Uruguayan equestrianism is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The men's 60 kg competition of the judo events at the 2019 Pan American Games in Lima, Peru, was held on August 8 at the Polideportivo 3.[1]
All times are local (UTC−5)
Two bronze medals were awarded.
The negotiations during the crisis in Venezuela are the negotiation and dialogue attempts and processes between the government of Nicolás Maduro and the Venezuelan opposition. Although numerous dialogue processes and roundtables have taken place, by 2023 none had been effective in achieving a solution to the country's crisis.[1]
Fedecámaras began to distance itself from Chávez whilst the new Constitution of 1999 was being drafted. Pedro Carmona indicates that the lack of dialogue between the government and businessmen during the constitutional process caused general discomfort in the business industry. Carmona thinks that the Constitution's specific points that irritated businesses are changing the nature of the armed forces to no longer be up for discussion or with public deliberation; the power granted to the president in terms of military promotions; the elimination of the bicameral Congress; the strengthening of presidential powers and the extension of the presidential term to six years with the possibility of immediate re-election; the loss of the balance between the ministers and chambers; > and the reaffirmation of a national ideology promoting statism and interventionism, which would limit individual and economic liberties.[2] Vicente Brito, the then-president of Fedecámaras, added one more reason when announcing that his organization would support "No" in the coming constitutional referendum: a statement that Chávez had made on 18 November 1999 that had bothered him.[3]
In the 28 July 2001 election, Carmona Estanga defeated Alberto Cudemus, a businessman close to Chávez, and succeeded Brito in the presidency of Fedecámaras. On 4 August, Carmona met with Chavez at the Military Academy of the Bolivarian Army, where they celebrated the anniversary of the National Guard; according to Estanga, Chávez said that he didn't want conflicts with Fedecámaras to continue, and they planned a meeting on 22 August at Miraflores.[2] At the meeting, Carmona proposed a plan to lower unemployment by 17% at that time, improving conditions in order to increase private investment up to 20% of GDP in five years, and Chávez responded with a plan for strengthening the public sector.[4] A table for dialogue was created between Fedecámaras and the government, the latter represented by Jorge Giordani, Minister of Planning. The meetings did not bring results: despite the fact that they happened once a week and that Chávez was present at one of them, the government continued to write the controversial 49 laws without sharing their content with Fedecámaras or its agricultural equivalent, Fedenaga. In the opinion of the opponents, this violated articles 206 and 211 of the Constitution.[5][6]

In October 2001, some of the content of these laws had been leaked as rumors, and so Carmona and Chavez met at the Caracas Military Circle. According to Carmona, they had tense dialogue:[2]Carmona Estanga: President, a confrontation is approaching, a train crash; avoid the decrees being approved as intended; there have not been consultations about the projects, among them the Land Law, one of the most delicate.
Chávez: I hope you do not take up the defense of the interests of the oligarchy as a way to prevent the approval of a law that will allow the distribution of land to the poor.
Carmona Estanga: Another thing is agrarian reform. Please call a consultation, avoid a rupture that will be tragic.
 On 13 November Chávez decrees 49 laws based on the Enabling Law, a legal instrument that allowed him to legislate without the approval of the Legislative Power, that was granted by the National Assembly in the previous November. Although originally two thirds of the Assembly were controlled by Chavez, the situation had changed as some deputies had become dissidents; it was unlikely that Chávez would succeed in obtaining another enabling act and so he passed these laws a day before this power expired. As such, several laws appeared, including the Organic Law of Hydrocarbons, the Fisheries Law, the Special Law of Cooperative Associations, the General Law of Ports. The most controversial was the Law of Land and Agrarian Development.[7] Under this law, the Venezuelan government gained the power to take private lands if they surpassed a certain size and were classified as latifundia, or if the government believed that they weren't being used to their maximum potential; this also meant that the State must now approve the owner's use of the land. In addition, all owners were required to prove ownership of their land before 18 December, at the risk of losing them if they did not.[8]
Carmona Estanga then suspended dialogue with the government and called an extraordinary assembly on 28 November. There he proposed that a national twelve-hour strike be held on 10 December, and he won the majority support of the business leadership, though the proposal was surprisingly rejected by Miguel Pérez Abad, the president of Fedeindustria.[9] On 4 May,[clarification needed] Fedecámaras joined Confederación de Trabajadores de Venezuela, the main trade union; its Secretary General, Carlos Ortega, was strengthened after winning the elections against the Chavista candidate, Aristóbulo Istúriz. However, the opposition political parties were divided in their opinions on how to overcome the political crisis. Acción Democrática insists on designating a medical board that proves the mental incapacity of the president, Francisco Arias Cárdenas and his deputies call for a referendum, the Movement for Socialism calls for more meetings on the Constitution, while Justice First and the Catholic Church ask the government for a change of course.[10] All options come from a business perspective, since the parties still hadn't recovered from electoral setbacks in recent years.[2]

Although firm in executing the 49 laws, Chávez does try to prevent Fedecámaras from carrying out the strike. During a luncheon with a group of businessmen and bankers on 6 December, the latter are pressured not to join the strike, with the threat of withdrawal of public funds deposited in their banks.[2][9] As a result of this meeting, the Interior Minister, Luis Miquilena, prepared a compromise that was presented to Carmona Estanga, but both Estanga and Chávez reject it, a fact that deepens the separation.[2] On the day of the strike Carmona announced that it was accepted by 90% of the country, though the government denied this; whether or not it was a success, though, both Chávez and Carmona said, in retrospect, that date was historical:Today is 10 December and we celebrate [the anniversary of] many things. We are marking ten years of that December in 2001. It began strongly, and in an open manner, the bourgeois aggression, the bourgeois counterrevolution, on 10 December ... Then, that 10 December, the counterrevolution began openly, ten years ago, and they were preparing the military coup, the economic coup, then the oil coup came a year later, in these days of 2002.The strike on 10 December went down in history as the first major protest milestone of civil society. According to some historians, its success was greater than that of the general strike that overthrew Marcos Pérez Jiménez in January 1958, bearing in mind that the objective on this occasion was not to overthrow a government, but to request rectifications in a firm, but peaceful, manner; had this been understood, it would have avoided the crisis that was taking shape in the country, before the stubbornness and blindness of the rulers ... From 10 December, the opposition majority felt that they had legal tools to fight against the official outrages and the autocracy. Civil society, encouraged by the result of the strike, began an almost permanent presence on the streets.Indeed, the conflict irreconcilably tore the businesses and the government apart; in the next two months Chávez makes two changes in his cabinet that show that there is no going back. First, he replaced the Minister of Agriculture and Lands for "a revolutionary professor" whose main mission was to make sure that the Land Law is executed;[12] he then fires Miquilena from government. Although he publicly promises to continue cooperating with Chávez, in private he was disgusted by the aggressive discourse of Chávez and waits for the right moment to take control of the National Assembly.[2]
The Boston Group was a parliamentary committee of the National Assembly of Venezuela financed by the Organization of American States (OAS) and created following the creation of the Venezuelan-American parliamentary friendship group, which in turn was created in 2002 after the coup d'état attempt. The group consisted of parliamentarians from the United States and Venezuela that agreed to meet outside the country to discuss important issues for both nations in a less polarized environment.[13] Its objectives were to learn legislative practices, to establish and maintain a solid link between the United States Congress and the Venezuelan parliament, and to create an exchange of legislative information and cooperation in areas of common interest. Half of the Venezuelan members were opposition deputies and the other half were pro-government deputies. Among the members of the group were Nicolás Maduro and John Kerry.[14]
Its executive committee was led by Pedro Díaz Blum and Calixto Ortega. Other members of the group were Cilia Flores; Luis Acuña; the vice president of CADIVI, José Salamán Khan; the rector of the National Electoral Council (CNE), Tania D'Amelio; Elvis Amoroso; Enrique Márquez [es]; and Ángel Emiro Vera.[15] One of the main themes of the Boston Group's discussions was poverty and the media. Cass Ballanger, who chaired the Committee for International Affairs of the Western Hemisphere in the US Congress, announced that five members of the group were going to get funding, donate equipment, and provide training for the National Assembly to have a public television station and a radio to transmit the debates of the Assembly and its commissions.[citation needed]
The first discussions of the Law on Social Responsibility on Radio and Television (Ley Resorte) were stopped so that the Boston Group could listen to the arguments for and against the law of owners of private media, in working groups. The Boston Group dissolved in 2005 after the retirement of opposition deputies during the 2005 parliamentary elections, which coincided with the creation of the official television channel of the Assembly, Asamblea Nacional Televisión (ANTV). Many of the laws passed by the Assembly during this period, including the Resorte Law, ignored the arguments and conclusions from the working groups of the Boston Group.[14]
During the protests in Venezuela in 2014, the government held a series of meetings from 26 February 2014, known as the "National Conference for Peace",[16][17] where various sectors of society met together.[16][18] The Democratic Unity Roundtable (MUD) announced that it would not participate in the National Peace Conference at that time, declaring that "it would not lend itself to a simulation of dialogue",[19] with Julio Borges, secretary of the Justice First opposition party, adding that the MUD had not participated because it did not know the meeting agenda proposed by the government, and believes that the main points discussed should be around disarmament of armed groups, the release of detained students, the separation of powers, the release of Leopoldo López, among other points.[20]
On 10 April the first round table was held between representatives of the Venezuelan opposition and members of the national government. The meeting took place in the Ayacucho Room of Miraflores Palace. The meeting was chaired and mediated by Colombian Foreign Minister María Ángela Holguín, Ecuadorian Foreign Minister Ricardo Patiño, and Brazilian Foreign Minister Luiz Alberto Figueiredo, all from the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), as well as a representative from the Holy See through the Apostolic Nunciature, at the request of the Venezuelan opposition.[21][22][23] President Maduro was accompanied by several senior politicians, among them the First Lady Cilia Flores; Vice President Jorge Arreaza; Foreign Minister Elías Jaua, Secretary of the Tupamaro Movement, José Tomás Pinto; and the mayor of the Libertador municipality, Jorge Rodríguez. The governor of Miranda, Henrique Capriles Radonski, was accompanied by different representatives of the MUD, including Ramón Guillermo Aveledo and Henry Ramos Allup. The meeting had 22 speakers in total, eleven from the MUD, and eleven from the government. The members played different songs for five hours on the national radio and television network. Pope Francis sent a letter to the members of the meeting, which opened discussions.[24]
In 2016, the opening stage of the recall referendum was suspended by the National Electoral Council (CNE) on 20 October, citing the decision of the regional courts of Apure, Aragua, Bolívar, Carabobo and Monagas. The votes were annulled, due to accusations of fraud by the Democratic Unity Roundtable. The opposition called for peaceful mass marches called "takeover of Venezuela" from 26 October 2016.
A few days later, the opposition announced the suspension of the "March to Miraflores" planned for 3 November 2016, whose destination was the Miraflores Palace in Caracas. The march was suspended after opposition representatives met with Thomas Shannon, US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, and Archbishop Claudio María Celli, who was sent by the Vatican as mediator of the conflict in Venezuela, negotiating the participation of the opposition at a dialogue table with the government.
During the protests in Venezuela in 2017, in September, the government and the opposition began negotiations again in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. After Operación Gedeón, in which the dissident Óscar Pérez died during a clash with security forces, the interior minister said he had obtained information for the operation at tables of dialogue. The coalition of the Democratic Unity Roundtable denied providing information and the operation, describing it as an "extrajudicial execution".[25] The MUD issued a statement to President Danilo Medina, demanding that the Venezuelan government clarify the statements offered by Minister Reverol on the case of Pérez[26] and said that the debate should not continue with the climate of tension that exists. The opposition delegation did not attend the last meeting scheduled for 18 January 2018, citing the operation as one of the reasons why it did not participate.[27][28][29]
On 22 January 2019, Mexico and Uruguay called for talks to reduce the tensions between government and opposition supports to prevent an escalation of violence.[30][31][32]
On 24 January, the secretary general of the UN, Antonio Gutierres, issued a call for dialogue, asking all the parties to tamper tensions and open an independent and transparent investigation into the events of the 23 January.[33]
On 28 January, Pope Francis reiterates his call for dialogue by specifically stating "that it be carried out in a climate of peace and justice."[34]
On 30 January, Mexico and Uruguay announce the convening of an International Conference on the Situation in Venezuela to be held in Uruguay on 7 February "to lay the foundations to establish a new dialogue mechanism that, with the inclusion of all Venezuelan forces, will contribute to return the stability and peace of this country", according to the statement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Uruguay.[35] The initiative is proposed, they point out, in response to the call of Gutierres and of Pope Francis for dialogue. Bolivia joins the initiative hours after the announcement.[36]
On 31 January, the EU's High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, announced the creation of the Contact Group on Venezuela, initially composed of eight European countries and four Latin American countries (Uruguay, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Spain, Ecuador, Costa Rica and Bolivia). During their first meeting on 7 February, Uruguay alongside the participating states—with the exception of Bolivia and Mexico—agreed to form the International Contact Group on Venezuela and issued a jointly signed declaration which called for new elections to occur in Venezuela.[37]
A US-drafted UN Security Council resolution calling for free and fair presidential elections in Venezuela received majority support, but it was vetoed by Russia and China on 28 February, with South Africa voting against the resolution as well.[38] A Russian counter-resolution calling for a dialogue between the Maduro government and the opposition based on the Montevideo mechanism, was voted against by France, the United Kingdom, the United States, Germany, Poland, Peru and Belgium while only 4 countries voted in favor of the resolution.[39]
Juan Guaidó declared that the National Assembly will not participate in the dialogue with Maduro. His reasoning is that it comes to nothing and has already been done "inside and outside Venezuela, in private and in public, alone and with international companions."[40] He says that the result in each case has been more repressive, with Maduro taking advantage of the process to strengthen the dictatorship.[40] Offering as examples Leopoldo Lopez, the detention of Juan Requesens, the exile of Julio Borges, among others, he said that if Maduro really wanted dialogue, he would free the political prisoners.[40]
Referring to a letter that Maduro wrote asking for help from Pope Francis, Guaidó rejected the Vatican's offer to mediate if both sides accepted, calling the attempt "false dialogue" and said the Vatican could help those who "refused to see the Venezuelan reality".[41] Guaidó said Maduro did not respect the terms of the 2016 negotiations and suggested that the pope could encourage Maduro to allow an orderly transition of power.[42]
Corriere della Sera cited[43] an edited copy[44][45] of a private letter sent by Pope Francis to Maduro on February 7[46] in response to a letter that Maduro wrote asking the pope for mediation.[47][48][49] In the letter, the Pope refers to Maduro as "His Excellency Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros"[43] and says that previous negotiating agreements have not been met.[46] The conditions, still applicable, were the opening of a humanitarian channel, the convocation of free elections, the freedom for political prisoners and the reestablishment of the powers of the National Assembly.[50] According to Andrea Gagliarducci, writing for the Catholic News Agency, the Pope accepted the position taken by the Venezuelan bishops, who maintain that Maduro's election was illegitimate, by not addressing him as president.[50]
Following the failed military uprising, representatives of Guaidó and Maduro began mediation with the assistance of the Norwegian Centre for Conflict Resolution. Jorge Rodríguez and Héctor Rodríguez Castro served as representatives for Maduro while Gerardo Blyde [es] and Stalin González were representatives for Guaidó. Guaidó confirmed that there was an envoy in Norway, but assured that the opposition would not take part in "any kind of fake negotiations".[51] After the second meeting in Norway, no deal was reached.[52] During a rally in June, Guaidó announced that there were no plans for further talks in Norway, "not on the table today. Why not? Because if anything that does not move us toward (Maduro’s resignation) is useless", he said.[53] Guaidó also declared that the next time there is a meeting in Oslo it would be because they are closer to the "cease of usurpation, transition government and free elections".[54]
On 9 July 2019 negotiations started in Barbados with representatives of Nicolás Maduro and Juan Guaidó.[55][56][57] Several theories arose from the negotiations, including potential elections agreed upon between the government and the opposition, having Héctor Rodríguez as the main government candidate.[58][59][60] On 15 September, Guaidó announced that the opposition concluded the dialogue after the absence of the government in the negotiations for 40 days as a protest to the recent sanctions by the United States.[citation needed]
In February 2020, the coordinator of the Lima Group, Hugo de Zela, announced that three of its member countries, – Argentina, Canada and Peru – were attempting to negotiate with the Cuban government to find a solution to the crisis. Although no details of the negotiation were leaked, it was confirmed by officials in Buenos Aires.[61]
In late March 2020, the United States relaxed its position and proposed a transitional government that would exclude both Maduro and Guaidó from the presidency.[62] Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that sanctions did not apply to humanitarian aid during the coronavirus pandemic health emergency and that the United States would lift all sanctions if Maduro agreed to organize elections that did not include himself in a period of six to twelve months. Pompeo reiterated U.S. support for Juan Guaidó.[63] The deal would enforce a power-sharing scenario between the different government factions, and the US would remove all sanctions should it be agreed to. Elections would have to be held within the year, and all foreign militaries (particularly noted were Cuba and Russia) would have to leave the country. The US were still seeking Maduro's arrest at the time of the announcement.[64] Other aspects of the US deal would include releasing all political prisoners and setting up a five-person council to lead the country; two members each chosen by Maduro and Guaidó would sit on the council, with the last member selected by the four. The EU also agreed to remove sanctions if the deal went ahead. Experts have noted that the deal is similar to earlier proposals but explicitly mentions who would lead a transitional government, something which stalled previous discussions, and comes shortly after the US indicted Maduro, which may pressure him to peacefully leave power.[65]
Guaidó accepted the proposal,[66] while Venezuela's foreign minister, Jorge Arreaza, rejected it and declared that only parliamentary elections would take place that year.[67]
Reuters reported that during the COVID-19 pandemic, allies of both Nicolás Maduro and Juan Guaidó had secretly begun exploratory talks, according to sources on both sides.[68] Guaidó and U.S. Special Representative for Venezuela Elliott Abrams have denied that negotiations have taken place.[69][70]
After the announcement of regional elections in 2021, Guaidó announced a "national salvation agreement" and proposed the negotiation with Maduro with a schedule for free and fair elections, with international support and observers, in exchange of lifting the international sanctions.[71][72]
On April 24, the head of the pro-government delegation to the negotiations in Mexico, Jorge Rodriguez, called for a halt to the investigation at the International Criminal Court about the situation in Venezuela, stating that one of the objectives of the dialogue with the opposition was to request a halt to the judicial proceedings against the country.[73]
In December 2017, a survey by Venebarómetro showed that 49.8% of Venezuelans disagreed with the dialogue that was taking place in the Dominican Republic.[74]
Horjak is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Big Lake (Dena'ina: K'enaka Bena[2])is a census-designated place (CDP) in Matanuska-Susitna Borough, Alaska, United States. It is part of the Anchorage, Alaska Metropolitan Statistical Area.  The population was 3,833 at the 2020 census, up from 3,350 in 2010.[3]
Big Lake is located at 61°32′15″N 149°53′28″W﻿ / ﻿61.53750°N 149.89111°W﻿ / 61.53750; -149.89111 (61.537449, -149.891104).[4]
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 144.8 square miles (375 km2), of which, 131.9 square miles (342 km2) of it is land and 12.9 square miles (33 km2) of it (8.89%) is water.
It contains Big Lake Airport, a general use airport with a gravel runway.
Big Lake, Alaska experiences an average of 51.4 inches of snowfall per year, 109 precipitation days, 131 sunny days,[5] and an average annual wind speed of 8.18 MPH.[6]
The area is home to three Alaska State Parks facilities. Big Lake North State Recreation Site is a 19 acres (7.7 ha) park with a large campground, picnic areas, boat launch, and jetski rentals.[8] Big Lake South State Recreation Site has a smaller campground, picnic sites, and boat launch.[9] Winter activities in both parks include cross country skiing, ice fishing, and dog mushing.
The Rocky Lake State Recreation Site is a 49 acres (20 ha) park with a  campground, picnic areas, and lake access.[10]
As of the 2010 census, Big Lake had a population of 3,350.[11] As of the 2017 American Community Survey, it was estimated to have 3,136 residents, of whom 53.2% were male, 46.8% were female, 82.8% were white, 5.2% were Native American or Alaska Native, 0.7% were Asian, and 11.3% were two or more races. 5.4% were Hispanic or Latino of any race.[12]
Big Lake first appeared on the 1960 U.S. Census as an unincorporated village.[14] It was made a census-designated place (CDP) in 1980.[15]
As of the census[16] of 2000, there were 2,635 people, 971 households, and 647 families residing in the CDP.  The population density was 20.0 inhabitants per square mile (7.7/km2).  There were 2,122 housing units at an average density of 16.1 per square mile (6.2/km2).  The racial makeup of the CDP was 87.13% White, 0.34% Black or African American, 7.32% Native American, 0.27% Asian, 0.04% Pacific Islander, 0.87% from other races, and 4.02% from two or more races.  1.97% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 971 households, out of which 31.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.1% were married couples living together, 8.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.3% were non-families. 24.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 4.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.60 and the average family size was 3.10.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 27.5% under the age of 18, 6.8% from 18 to 24, 32.3% from 25 to 44, 26.0% from 45 to 64, and 7.4% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 118.7 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 125.8 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $43,382, and the median income for a family was $47,542. Males had a median income of $40,000 versus $30,139 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $19,285.  About 9.8% of families and 14.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 20.7% of those under age 18 and 1.0% of those age 65 or over.
Within Big Lake is the former short-lived incorporated city of Long Island, which existed from 1965-1975 and had just 7 residents on the 1970 census.[18][19] It was located on the northeast side of Big Lake at 61°32′35″N 149°52′45″W﻿ / ﻿61.54306°N 149.87917°W﻿ / 61.54306; -149.87917﻿ (Long Island, Alaska).[20] This is not to be confused with the former logging camp of Long Island.
Peter Norton Townsend (15 February 1910 – 9 May 1995) was an English first-class cricketer.
The son of the cricketer Charlie Townsend, he was born in February 1910 at Norton, County Durham. He was educated at Winchester College, before going up to New College, Oxford.[1] While studying at Oxford, he played first-class cricket for Oxford University in 1929, making two appearances against the touring South Africans and Nottinghamshire.[2] He scored 16 runs in his two matches,[3] while with his leg break bowling he took 3 wickets.[4] After graduating from Oxford, he became a solicitor.[5] Townsend died at Bromley in May 1995. Coming from a large cricketing family, several relatives played cricket at first-class level, with his father and brother, David, playing Test cricket for England.

This biographical article related to an English cricket person born in the 1910s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The West Bengal Film Journalists' Association Award for Best Actor in a supporting Role is given yearly by WBFJA as a part of its annual West Bengal Film Journalists' Association Awards for Bengali films, to recognize the best actor of the previous year.
The 1958 Texas Tech Red Raiders football team represented Texas Technological College—now known as Texas Tech University—as an independent during the 1958 NCAA University Division football season. In their eighth season under head coach DeWitt Weaver, the Red Raiders compiled a 3–7 record and were outscored by opponents by a combined total of 163 to 126.[1][2] The team's statistical leaders included Jerry Bell with 435 passing yards, Ronnie Rice with 263 rushing yards, and Floyd Dellinger with 231 receiving yards.[3][4] The team played its home games at Clifford B. and Audrey Jones Stadium.
[1][2]

This article about a sports team in Texas is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This college football 1950s season article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ballet égyptien, Op. 12 (1875), is Alexandre Luigini's best-known composition and the only one of his works in the standard repertoire. It was dedicated to Jules Pasdeloup. The ballet consists of eight movements, from which two different concert suites have been extracted. The first suite is the better known.
It originally gained prominence when it was included in Act II of Giuseppe Verdi's opera Aida for a performance in Lyon in 1886. The fame of the piece inspired Luigini to write other pieces on exotic themes, such as Ballet russe, Marche d'émir,[1] and symphonic poems Fête arabe, Op. 49 and Carnaval turc, Op. 51.[2]
Ballet égyptien has been arranged for piano solo, 2 pianos 4-hands and 2 pianos 8-hands,[3] as well as for brass band.
It has been recorded numerous times, by conductors such as Anatole Fistoulari, John Lanchbery, Jean Fournet and Richard Bonynge.  It often appears in compilations of light music.[4]
It is perhaps best known as the background music used by the British music hall act Wilson, Keppel and Betty for their sand dance.
Magnus Bjorndal (September 13, 1899 – January 23, 1971) was a Norwegian American engineer and inventor. Magnus Bjorndal was the founder and president of Tech Laboratories, Inc.[1][2]
Magnus Bjorndal was from Ulstein in Møre og Romsdal county, Norway. He held degrees in both electrical and mechanical engineering. Mechanical trade school at Porsgrunn (now Telemark University College) in Telemark county, Norway. He also studied at the Hindenburg Polytechnicum in Oldenburg, Germany. At age 24, Magnus Bjorndal came to the United States in 1923.[3] He studied electrical engineering at Brooklyn Polytech (now Polytechnic Institute of New York University).
Magnus Bjorndal served as chief engineer of The Daven Radio Company, an electronics manufacturer in Newark, New Jersey. Subsequently he was the founder and president of Tech Laboratories, Inc., which was incorporated in the state of New Jersey in 1937.[1] Tech Laboratories developed the initial test and control instruments for the NBC Radio City Studios in New York City. Bjorndal personally held a number of United States patents for scientific and technical instruments.[4][5]
Bjorndal was a member of American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Association for the Advancement of Science and Audio Engineering Society. Bjorndal served as editor of the Norwegian-American Technical Journal. He was president of Norwegian-American Historical Association (1969–1971).[6]
Bjorndal died in Hoboken, New Jersey in 1971.[1]
M. Keaton is an American fiction author who writes for a variety of genres, ranging from science fiction to historical fantasy. He is also the Bard in Residence for the NWA Renaissance Faire. He currently lives in Arkansas.
Keaton is a key figure in the Sanctuary Press Writing Workshops, which are held in Michigan at science fiction conventions, most notably Penguicon and ConClave. He is a popular panelist at both of these gatherings,[1] as well as at other conventions, such as Omegacon.
Calamity's Child, his second novel, was released in October 2008 and premiered at ConClave 33.[2]
This is a list of tambon (sub-districts) in Thailand, beginning with the letters N and O. This information is liable to change due to border changes or re-allocation of Tambons. Missing Tambon numbers show where the number is either not used or the Tambon has been transferred to a different Amphoe.
The Mount Hood Wilderness is a protected wilderness area inside the Mount Hood National Forest, in the U.S. state of Oregon. The area, covering 64,742 acres (26,200 ha), includes the peak of Mount Hood and its upper slopes, and ranges from temperate rain forests at the lower elevations, to glaciers and rocky ridges at higher elevations.
The wilderness wraps around the mountain from west to northeast, and borders Timberline Lodge and Mount Hood Meadows ski lifts on some of the south and east slopes of the mountain.
Journeys to the summit are popular. There are opportunities for experienced and novice mountaineers to traverse glaciers, snowfields and steep volcanic soil, and to deal with rapidly changing and difficult to predict weather.[1]  More than 10,000 climbers annually make the attempt, making Mount Hood's summit the most visited snowclad peak in America.[2]
Numerous trails circle the mountain, from Lolo Pass on the northwest (which the Pacific Crest Trail crosses) to Cloud Cap on the northeast to the ski areas on the south. There are several historic structures (predating the wilderness designation), one of which is the remains of a stone lodge near Cairn Basin on the northwest side. Numerous pristine areas are easily accessible, such as Elk Cove on the north side of the mountain near the tree line.
The best known trail is the forty-one mile Timberline Trail, Forest Service trail #600, which circles the mountain. It shares eleven miles with the Pacific Crest Trail and alternates above and below the timberline. The trail is rerouted periodically due to washouts and to avoid sensitive high altitude and alpine meadows. It has a handful of informal campsites for backpackers, although camping is permitted anywhere outside the meadows and at least 200 feet (61 m) from water bodies. There are several hazardous stream crossings, especially on the west side and at the landslide-prone Eliot Branch near Cloud Cap, which closed the trail there in 2007. The trail has several significant vertical ascents and descents totaling 9,000 feet (2,700 m), mostly at canyon crossings. Elevation of the trail varies from 3,250 feet (990 m) (half a mile west of dramatic Ramona Falls on the west side) to 7,300 feet (2,200 m) on the east side. The trail is accessible from Timberline Lodge, which has free parking for backpackers, and numerous connecting trails.
Wilderness permits are required, but free, to enter the area and can be filled out at ranger stations or at kiosks along trails where they enter the wilderness. Climbers ascending to or near the summit are required to register (and sign out at return) in Timberline's day lodge, or at other wilderness permit registration kiosks. Mountain Locator Units can be rented in Government Camp and at some area recreation businesses.
U.S. Wilderness Areas do not allow vehicles, including bicycles. Although camping and fishing are allowed with proper permit, no roads or buildings are constructed and there is also no logging or mining, in compliance with the 1964 Wilderness Act. Wilderness areas within National Forests and Bureau of Land Management areas do allow hunting in season.
Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Paget GCH (7 October 1778 – 27 January 1839) was a British sailor who also became a liberal politician and Member of Parliament.
Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Paget (1778–1839) was the son of Henry Bayly Paget, 1st Earl of Uxbridge, and Jane Champagné, and was brother to Henry Paget, 1st Marquess of Anglesey. He joined the Royal Navy in 1790,[1] and by 1797 he was captain of HMS Martin, a sloop of war serving at the Battle of Camperdown.[2]
In 1798 Paget became post-captain of HMS Brilliant, a small frigate in which he captured le Dragon of 11 guns, and the St Jago, a Spanish privateer of 10 guns.[2] In 1800 he removed into HMS Egyptienne.[2] His next appointment was to HMS Hydra, a frigate of 38 guns, in which he proceeded to the Mediterranean where he remained about twelve months. On 6 April 1803 he commissioned HMS Endymion, a frigate of the largest class, and in the course of the ensuing summer he captured Bacchante, a French corvette of 18 guns, Adour, a store ship pierced for 20 guns, and General, a Morcau schooner privateer of 16 guns. He subsequently intercepted several richly laden Spanish merchantmen coming from South America, and he also captured Colombe, a French corvette of 10 guns off Ushant. 
Towards the close of the long French war, Paget, while cruising in the Endymion on the coast of Spain, sighted a French ship-of-the-line in imminent danger, embayed among rocks upon a lee shore, bowsprit and foremast gone, and riding by a stream cable, her only remaining one. Though it was blowing a gale, Paget bore down to the assistance of his enemy, dropped his sheet anchor on the Frenchman's bow, buoyed the cable, and veered it athwart his hawse. This the disabled ship succeeded in getting in, and thus seven hundred lives were rescued from destruction. After performing this chivalrous action, Endymion, being herself in great peril, hauled to the wind, let go her bower anchor, club-hauled and stood off shore on the other tack.[3]
Paget participated in an attack on a French frigate squadron anchored at Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue at the action of 15 November 1810, which ultimately led to the destruction of the Elisa.
He was appointed to HMS Superb, another third rate belonging to the Channel Fleet, and during a cruise in the bay of Biscay he took several prizes. In 1814 he was employed on the coast of North America under the orders of Sir Alexander Cochrane by whom he was entrusted with the command of a squadron stationed off New London and took part in an attack upon Wareham, Massachusetts during the War of 1812.[2]
Captain Paget was appointed to the command of HMY Prince Regent on 1 January 1819 and afterwards to the Royal George. He attended King George IV, and before his accession he nominated Charles as a Knight Grand Cross of the Hanoverian Guelphic Order and a Knight Bachelor at Brighton on 19 October 1819. In January 1822, Sir Charles succeeded his brother Lieut Gen Sir Edward Paget as a Groom of the Bedchamber, and he continued to hold that appointment during the whole reign of King William IV.[2]
He was made a commodore on board the Royal George on 26 July 1822 and was advanced to the rank of rear admiral on 9 April 1823.
In March 1828 he was appointed commander in chief on the coast of Ireland.[2] He attained the rank of vice admiral on 10 January 1837 and succeeded Vice Admiral Sir Peter Halkett in the command of the North America and West Indies Squadron using HMS Cornwallis as his flagship.
Sir Charles Paget died on board HMS Tartarus, whilst she was on her way from Port Royal to Bermuda.[2] His death ensued after a violent attack of yellow fever during which for three days his death was hourly expected. Of his staff of twenty, six had died including Dr Scott the surgeon. Feeling better, but weak, and strangely free from rheumatic pain on 19 January he embarked on board the Tartarus, for the purpose of going to the Bermudas. He was off those islands for three days, but being unable to reach them was obliged to go back to St Thomas's.[2]
He was Member of Parliament for the rotten borough of Milborne Port from 1804 to 1806, then succeeded his elder brother Edward Paget as MP for Caernarvon Boroughs from 1806 to 1826, and was its MP again from 1831 to 1835.[4] According to Hansard's records, Paget made no contributions to debates in parliament.[5]
Peget was buried in St Bartholomew's Church in Rogate in West Sussex. He had married Elizabeth Monck. She was daughter of Henry Monck of Fore, County Westmeath and his wife Lady Elizabeth Araminta Gore, daughter of Arthur Gore, 2nd Earl of Arran, and granddaughter of George Paul Monck, Member of Parliament for Coleraine.[6] She died at Fair Oak on 17 August 1843, aged 56 years.[1]
Their children included:
Also Horatio Henry Paget died aged 15 as a midshipman on board HMS Talbot on 28 April 1828.
Echchil Iravugal is a 1982 Indian Tamil-language film, directed by A. S. Prakasam, starring Roopa, Pratap Pothen, Raveendran and Vanitha Krishnachandran.[1][2] It was released on 14 April 1982.[3]
The music was composed by Ilaiyaraaja.[4][5]
North Branch is a NJ Transit railroad station on the Raritan Valley Line, in the hamlet of North Branch in Branchburg, New Jersey.  The station is in a residential area, a mile to the south of North Branch center.  The station has a small shelter with no facilities and is across the street from the Printmaking Council of New Jersey.  North Branch station and the stations west of it have no weekend service. The former Jersey Central Railroad station depot burned to the ground on January 8, 1970.[5]
The station has a single low-level asphalt side platform. The platform is 192 feet (59 m) long and accommodates a single car.[7]
 Media related to North Branch (NJT station) at Wikimedia Commons

This New Jersey train station-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Jarebice is a village in the municipality of Tutin, Serbia. According to the 2002 census, the village has a population of 215 people.[1]
43°02′N 20°13′E﻿ / ﻿43.033°N 20.217°E﻿ / 43.033; 20.217
This Raška District, Serbia location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Garth Ennis (born 16 January 1970)[1] is a Northern Irish–American[2] comics writer, best known for the Vertigo series Preacher with artist Steve Dillon, his nine-year run on Marvel Comics' Punisher franchise, and The Boys with artist Darick Robertson. He has collaborated with artists such as Dillon and Glenn Fabry on Preacher, John McCrea on Hitman, Marc Silvestri on The Darkness, and Carlos Ezquerra on both Preacher and Hitman. His work has won him recognition in the comics industry, including nominations for the Comics Buyer's Guide Award for Favorite Writer in 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
Ennis is originally from Northern Ireland.[2]
Raised with no religion, Ennis's first exposure to the idea of God was as a six-year-old in primary school. Ennis's teacher told the class that God was a being who could see inside their hearts, was always around them, and would ultimately reward or punish them. Ennis described the idea as bewildering, strange and terrifying. He later used this experience in his comic book series, Preacher, whose protagonist is slapped after telling his grandmother that he finds the concept of God "scary". Although the fictional violence in that story was not reflected in Ennis's real-life upbringing, his classmates later reassured each other that they all loved God, though Ennis said, "I think I hate him." Ennis later asked his mother about God, and when she asked him what he thought about the idea, Ennis responded, "It sounds kind of stupid," a statement the adult Ennis clarified was meant to mask his fear. His mother's response was, "Well, there you are, then."[3]
In 1987, Ennis befriended artist John McCrea while shopping at the first comic book specialty shop in Belfast, which had been opened by McCrea and another friend. Ennis would later ask McCrea to illustrate his first professional comics project.[3] It was here that Ennis first met comics writer Alan Moore, who advised him to focus on creator-owned work rather than letting comic companies take ownership of his intellectual property.[4]
Ennis began his comic-writing career on his nineteenth birthday in 1989, with the series Troubled Souls in the British anthology Crisis.[5] Illustrated by Ennis's friend John McCrea, as living in Northern Ireland meant he did not require reference material for the Belfast-based series, it tells the story of a young, apolitical Protestant man caught up by fate in the violence of the Irish Troubles. It spawned a sequel, For a Few Troubles More, a broad comedy featuring two supporting characters from Troubled Souls, Dougie and Ivor. In 1997, American publisher Caliber released Dicks, serving as another Dougie and Ivor adventure. Several follow-ups featuring these characters were subsequently published by Avatar Press.
In explaining why he chose to write Troubled Souls as his debut comics work, Ennis explained, "It was the kind of thing that was doing well at the time. I ought to be completely clear and say that, with hindsight, what Troubled Souls really represented was naked ambition. It was a direct attempt to get published. And that was the road that seemed most likely to lead me to success."[6]
Another series for Crisis was True Faith, a religious satire inspired by his school days, drawn by Warren Pleece. A collected edition was issued in 1990 but a series of complaints from churches and religious groups led to it being quickly withdrawn from sale.[7] It was republished in 1997 by the U.S. DC Comics imprint Vertigo. The plot follows an atheist teenager attending Christian school. After publicly insulting his classmates' religion to get back at a girl he was interested in who did not return his romantic feelings, the boy attracts the attention of a maltheist and is coerced into helping him murder clergy and bomb churches. Following the death of the maltheist, the book ends with the atheistic hero willingly carrying out a shooting at his Christian school. In the introduction to the Vertigo edition, Ennis described this as wish-fulfillment.[8] Shortly after, Ennis began to write for the UK comics series 2000 AD, and later wrote stories for the title's flagship character, Judge Dredd, taking over from creator John Wagner for several years. Ennis's Dredd stories include "Muzak Killer", a satirical attack on mainstream pop music; "Emerald Isle", a tongue-in-cheek story set in Ennis's native Ireland; and the 20-part "Judgment Day". Ennis also contributed the story "Time Flies", with artist Philip Bond, dealing with time-travel paradoxes and Nazis.
In 2001, following much work in the United States, Ennis briefly returned to UK comics to write the Judge Dredd story "Helter Skelter". Ennis said afterward there was "not a hope" to his returning to writing Dredd as he was generally not happy with his run. "I'm too close to Dredd. I like him too much. I can't tamper with the formula; nor can I take the piss the way I do with superheroes".[9]
In 1991, Ennis took over the horror series Hellblazer, from DC Comics' Vertigo imprint. He wrote the series through 1994, with Steve Dillon becoming the regular artist during the second half of Ennis's run; Ennis and Dillon would later become regular collaborators on other comics, including the one-shot Heartland, exploring one of Hellblazer's secondary characters. Years afterward, Ennis briefly returned to Hellblazer for the five-part "Son of Man" story with artist John Higgins.
Ennis and Dillon went on to create the 66-issue Vertigo series Preacher. Running from 1995 to 2000, Preacher has been cited as Ennis's landmark work.[10] Its plot concerns a preacher with supernatural powers who literally searches for the Christian God, who had abandoned His creation. Mixing influences from Western and horror films with twisted humor and religious satire, it drew plaudits for Ennis from all sections of the media; the Guardian newspaper voted one of the Preacher collections its Book of the Week, and film director Kevin Smith described it as "more fun than going to the movies." The AMC television series Preacher, adapted from the comic, premiered in 2016.[11] From 1993 to 1995, Ennis worked with artist John McCrea on another DC title, The Demon, during which the duo introduced superpowered contract killer Tommy Monaghan, a character Ennis and McCrea would go on to use in the character's own title, Hitman. With the exception of a reverent depiction of Superman, Ennis's writing on Hitman was known for portraying superheroes as ridiculous, a characteristic commonly found in Ennis' material involving such characters. Hitman ran 60 issues from 1996 to 2001. Ennis also penned several Hitman specials and spinoffs. Following the main title's cancellation, Ennis and McCrea returned to the world of Hitman for a Justice League crossover, and later a comedic miniseries following the supporting characters from Hitman, entitled Section Eight.
Other DC comics projects Ennis wrote include Bloody Mary for the Helix imprint; a run on The Authority for the Wildstorm imprint; and the first arc of the Authority spin-off series Midnighter, as well as a story for the series Unknown Soldier and the original creations Goddess and Pride & Joy, all for the Vertigo imprint.
Ennis's first work for Marvel was Punisher Kills the Marvel Universe in 1995. Ennis noted that he quit writing for Marvel after completing this work, as the dialogue in the comic had been altered without his consultation.[4] Following the end of Hitman, Ennis was once again offered the chance to write The Punisher at Marvel. The initial 12-issue miniseries was illustrated by Steve Dillon, who also illustrated much of Ennis's subsequent 37-issue run of the Marvel Knights Punisher series. No longer finding violence comedic in light of the September 11th terrorist attacks, Ennis relaunched The Punisher under Marvel's MAX imprint, allowing for darker stories. His 60-issue run was released concurrently with several Ennis-penned Punisher miniseries such as Born and Barracuda, and the one-shots The End, The Cell, and The Tyger. The creators of Punisher: War Zone have declared Ennis's The Punisher MAX run to have been one of the major influences on the film, and Ennis and Dillon reunited for a Punisher: War Zone miniseries to tie-in with the film.[9][12]
In 2008, Ennis ended his five-year run on the MAX imprint's Punisher series to write the Marvel miniseries War Is Hell: The First Flight of the Phantom Eagle. Illustrated by Howard Chaykin, it featured the little-used character Phantom Eagle, a World War I pilot.[13][14] Other series Ennis wrote for Marvel include Where Monsters Dwell, Spider-Man, Ghost Rider, Hulk, Thor, and a series of Goran Parlov-illustrated Nick Fury stories under the MAX imprint. These stories stripped superspy Fury of his science-fiction trappings in favor of  military and CIA situations, including a focus on the First Indochina War in one storyline.[15]
Ennis has written a 2008 Dan Dare miniseries published by Virgin Comics, and origin stories for The Darkness for Image Comics and Shadow Man for Valiant Comics. Original comics Ennis has created include the 5-issue mini-series Seven Brothers for Virgin Comics, on which Ennis collaborated with film director John Woo,[16] a vulgar superhero satire entitled The Pro for Image Comics, the post-apocalyptic Just a Pilgrim for Black Bull Press, and War Stories for DC and later Avatar Press.
Avatar has published the bulk of Ennis's creator-owned material, which includes the post-9/11 war story 303, a western  entitled Streets of Glory,[17] the extreme horror comic Crossed,[18][19] Back to Brooklyn, a crime limited series co-written with Jimmy Palmiotti for Image Comics,[20] Caliban, a science fiction horror series inspired by the movie Prometheus,[21] and Chronicles of Wormwood, which dealt with the friendship between an African-American Jesus Christ and a benign Antichrist. In 2011, Avatar commissioned Ennis to write and direct an original short film, Stitched, produced to drum up support for a possible feature. Ennis was also the initial writer for the Stitched comic book tie-in, also published by Avatar.
Ennis has also done both creator-owned and commissioned work for Dynamite Entertainment, most notably The Boys.  Mainly illustrated by co-creator Darick Robertson, who Ennis previously worked with on the Marvel series Fury: Peacemaker and Punisher: Born, The Boys ran for 72 issues before concluding in 2012. This creator-owned extended series was a superhero satire, bringing the genre to places far darker than Ennis had before, by not only portraying superheroes as ridiculous, but also amoral, malevolent, and deviant. Announced in 2006 and originally published by DC's Wildstorm imprint, The Boys was initially cancelled after six issues. Ennis later explained that this was because DC Comics were uneasy with the anti-superhero tone of the work. The series was subsequently picked up by Dynamite.[22] The series was successful and spawned spinoffs, including a mini-series focused on the anti-hero Billy Butcher.[23] In 2019, The Boys was adapted into a TV series by Amazon.
Other original projects for Dynamite include the Howard Chaykin-illustrated crime comic Red Team[24] and a metaseries of war comics called Battlefields,[25][26] made up of mini-series including Night Witches,[27][28] Dear Billy,[29][30] and Tankies.[31][32] Among his commissioned material, Ennis wrote the pulp character The Shadow for Dynamite.[33] In a surprise move, Ennis attempted to crowdfund a children's book through the Kickstarter platform. Unable to secure a children's book publisher due to its violent ending, Erf as the book became known, was ultimately published by Dynamite.[34]
Ennis wrote Sara in October 2018 for TKO Studios, a war story following a team of female Russian snipers as they beat back the Nazi invaders during a brutal winter campaign on the WWII Eastern Front.[35][36]
Ennis wrote Stringbags in 2020 for the U. S. Naval Institute.  The graphic novel relates the adventures of Allied airmen who crewed a Swordfish airplane during World War II.[37]
Ennis has explained that as an avid reader of British war comics during his formative years, he did not read superhero comics until his late teens, at which point he found them ridiculous, although he frequently cites mid-eighties superhero material among his influences.[6][3] For instance, Ennis noted that the first American comic book he read in its entirety and appreciated was The Dark Knight Returns by Frank Miller,[38] an author who would prove influential on Ennis's subsequent work, with Ennis citing Miller's portrayal of Nick Fury in Elektra: Assassin as his model for writing the character.[39] Ennis said he was "blown away" by Miller, as The Dark Knight Returns was the first time he encountered a comic writer who approached his work like a novelist. While Ennis was already interested in a creative profession, Frank Miller's material and other mid-eighties mature readers comics like Swamp Thing and Love and Rockets inspired him to look into specifically writing comics as a career.[40]
Despite being influenced by superhero material and having written a number of superhero stories both for and outside Marvel and DC, Ennis is noted for subverting the genre and mocking the characters in this work. For example, in the 1995 one-shot special Punisher Kills the Marvel Universe, Ennis has the Punisher kill every single superhero and supervillain on Earth. As a World War II aficionado, Ennis also said he finds characters like Captain America "borderline offensive, because to me the reality of World War II was very human people, ordinary flesh-and-blood guys who slogged it out in miserable, flooded foxholes. So adding some fantasy superhero narrative, that has always annoyed me a little bit."[6] Nonetheless, Ennis has admitted to having appreciation for the idea behind Wonder Woman if not the character, and even to outright liking Superman, the latter of whom he was noted for writing respectfully in Hitman.[41] Ennis has since explained that his issue with superhero comics is not over the genre in and of itself, but more over its dominance in the comic book industry and the constraints imposed on superhero stories by publishers. "I find most superhero stories completely meaningless," Ennis said. "Which is not to say I don't think there's potential for the genre – Alan Moore and Warren Ellis have both done interesting work with the notion of what it might be like to be and think beyond human, see Miracleman, Watchmen and Supergod. But so long as the industry is geared towards fulfilling audience demand – ie, for the same brightly coloured characters doing the same thing forever – you're never going to see any real growth. The stories can't end, so they'll never mean anything."[42]
Ennis has remarked that in terms of Marvel and DC characters, he prefers the ones he describes as more grounded, such as the Punisher, John Constantine, and Nick Fury. In particular, Ennis describes the Punisher as resembling the British comics characters he loved as a child more than Marvel and DC superheroes, which provided him with a way to the character.[3][43] Though his Constantine stories, such as "Dangerous Habits" (1991), are widely acclaimed, Ennis grew to dislike the character. He told Vulture in 2014 that he had come to find Constantine morally repulsive and had "no desire to write a character who essentially gets his pals killed and then explains that they were doomed anyway, so why not just spend their lives and use them up."[44]
Ennis had become a citizen of the United States by July 2016.[2]
Ennis is an atheist,[45] and said he feels disdain toward religion. Ennis blamed growing up in Northern Ireland during the Troubles for influencing this attitude. While he was not directly involved in the conflict as a child, Ennis would hear about it each morning on the radio. Ennis has related that having been raised secular, religiously motivated violence made no sense as to him, characterizing such conflict as a disagreement among participants over "how to worship their imaginary friend. That more than anything gave me my distrust of religion."[3]
Ennis has maintained an interest in military history since childhood, inspired by the war comics from his youth.[46]
Titles published by Fleetway include:
Titles published by DC Comics and its various imprints include:
Titles published by Marvel include:
Titles published by Avatar include:
Titles published by Dynamite include:
Titles published by various British and American publishers include:
Vanwyksvlei Dam is a dam in South Africa. It was established in 1884.

This article about a dam or floodgate in  South Africa is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The South Korea women's national football team has represented South Korea (Korea Republic) at the FIFA Women's World Cup on four occasions, in 2003,[1] 2015,[2] 2019,[3] and 2023.
South Korea finished in fourth place at the 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup and qualified for the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup, where they made it out of the group stage for the first time. They were drawn in Group E with Brazil, Spain and Costa Rica. South Korea lost 2–0 to Brazil on 9 June 2015, but a 2–2 draw with Costa Rica on 13 June and a 2–1 victory against Spain on 17 June were enough to progress for the first time ever at a World Cup. They went on to lose 3–0 to France in the round of 16 on 21 June 2015.
Coming off an improved showing at the previous one, South Korea qualified for the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup and were put in Group A with France, Norway and Nigeria. However, they could not repeat their prior success in 2015 and lost all three games and exited the tournament in the group stage, only scoring one goal in their entire run and even an own goal.
South Korea next qualified for the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup. As in 2019, the team scored only one goal, but achieved a notable result by drawing their final match with Germany 1–1, which resulted in the Germans exiting the tournament at the group stage despite being second in the FIFA Ranking at the time.[12][13][14]
United Nations Security Council resolution 672, adopted unanimously on 12 October 1990, after reaffirming resolutions 476 (1980), 478 (1980), the Council expressed alarm at the 1990 Temple Mount riots in Jerusalem on 8 October 1990, resulting in the death of over 20 Palestinians and the injury of more than 150 people, including Palestinian civilians and worshippers.
The Council went on to condemn the actions of the Israeli security forces, calling on Israel to abide by its legal obligations under the Fourth Geneva Convention. Resolution 672 also authorised a mission to be sent to the region to investigate the incident, reporting back by the end of October 1990.
Israel rejected the resolution, saying it did not pay attention to attacks on Jewish worshippers at the Western Wall.[1]
Copelatus dolosus is a species of diving beetle. It is part of the genus Copelatus of the subfamily Copelatinae in the family Dytiscidae. It was described by Guignot in 1956.[1]

This Copelatus-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The frontbench of Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition in the Parliament of the United Kingdom consists of the Shadow Cabinet and other shadow ministers of the political party currently serving as the Official Opposition. From 2010 to 2015, Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition was the Labour Party, and the Leader of the Opposition was Ed Miliband.[1]
Key
Leader of the Labour Party
Deputy Leader of the Labour Party
Shadow Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom
Chair of the Labour Party
Wallace Gordon Parks (January 23, 1913 – September 28, 2007) was an American writer. He was the founder, president, and chairman of the National Hot Rod Association, better known as NHRA.  He was instrumental in establishing drag racing as a legitimate amateur and professional motorsport.
Parks was an accomplished automobile writer and hobbyist, and co-founder and first editor of the magazine Hot Rod in January 1948.  He was also instrumental in the founding of Motor Trend magazine in September 1949.  As editor of Hot Rod, he began to promote safety in the organization of drag racing, both in the magazine and by organizing "Safety Safaris," the first of which toured the United States in 1954, teaching drag race organization and safety at tracks around the country.  This was the first concerted effort in getting racers off the streets and onto controlled race tracks.
In 1951, he founded the National Hot Rod Association, which stands today as the largest motorsports sanctioning body in the world, and became its president for several decades after leaving the magazine business.  His wife, Barbara, who preceded him in death in 2006, worked for the NHRA as its Chief Secretary in its formative years.
Parks played a part in promoting drag racing outside of the United States, organizing tours to England in 1964 and 1965, in collaboration with Sydney Allard, and to Australia in 1966.[1]
Winners of National Hot Rod Association national events are awarded a trophy statue nicknamed the Wally.  The trophy is a bronze statue of a Top Gas racer next to a tire on a wooden platform. As the NHRA celebrated its 60th anniversary season in 2011, pewter Wally trophies were awarded to all of the winners during that season. Other events celebrating milestones may award Wally trophies in varying colors.[citation needed]
Parks died on September 28, 2007, due to complications from pneumonia, at the age of 94. Prior to his death, he was chairman of the Wally Parks NHRA Motorsports Museum in Pomona, California.[2]
Parks was inducted into the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 1992.
He was inducted into the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 1993.[3]
This Oklahoma-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Dinner at My Place is a 2022 Nigerian romantic comedy drama written and directed by Kevin Apaa. The film stars Timini Egbuson, Bisola Aiyeola and Sophie Alakija in the lead roles. The film had its theatrical release on 28 January 2022 and opened to positive reviews from critics.[1][2]
The film is based on a Nigerian-American man Nonso (Timini Egbuson) who is planning to propose his girlfriend (Sophie Alakija) over dinner. He has already planned to gift the gold ring to his girlfriend which was worth $22000 and it originally belongs to his beloved mother as his deceased mother left that ring for him in memory.[3] But to his surprise, things become worse as far as his intentions were concerned when his ex-girlfriend (Bisola Aiyeola) spoils the fun by entering the picture shows up uninvited.
Filmmaker Kevin Apaa revealed that he initially narrated the story suitable for a short film and made the short film with a duration of 11 minutes with the same title. It was released in 2019 and opened to positive reviews. The short film garnered critical acclaim winning eight awards and was also screened in film festivals in USA and UK. The positive reception to the short film encouraged Apaa to come up with a lengthy feature film by maintaining the same title. He and his crew members developed the script as a romantic drama film.[4] The cast members who were roped in for the feature film had not previously appeared in the short film. The film was entirely shot in Lagos.[5]
Carlton Dabney (born January 26, 1947) is a former American football defensive tackle. He played for the Atlanta Falcons in 1968.[1][2]
"The Gold" is a song by the American rock band Manchester Orchestra. The song was released on June 9, 2017, as the lead single from their fifth studio album, A Black Mile to the Surface. The song was a chart success for the band, peaking at No. 2 on Billboard's Adult Alternative Songs chart and No. 12 on Billboard's Alternative Songs chart, their first charting single in six years.[2]
In an interview, Manchester Orchestra lead singer Andy Hull stated that "The Gold" deals with issues of trust and learning to communicate. The song was written by Hull. Producer Catherine Marks, who the band was working with for the first time, allowed the band's songwriters to work on the A Black Mile to the Surface album for three months by themselves, during which they deconstructed and added new layers to "The Gold".[3]
"The Gold" was released as a single on June 9, 2017, as part of the A Black Mile to the Surface album announcement.[4] The song was sent for adds to Triple-A radio stations on June 26 and Alternative radio stations on September 12.[5]
A video for "The Gold" was released on the same day as the song, directed by Mike Dempsey and Johnny Chew.[6]
In July 2018, Phoebe Bridgers released a cover version of "The Gold" featuring Manchester Orchestra on instruments.[7]
The Univox Super-Fuzz was a fuzzbox produced by the Univox company, primarily for use with the electric guitar or bass. 
The circuit was designed in the late 1960s by the Japanese company Honey, in the form of a multi effect called the Honey Psychedelic Machine. Later on, Honey was taken on by Shin-ei, who produced the effect separately (who also produced another well known fuzz box, the Shin-ei Companion FY-2) and imported in the USA by Unicord.  The first Super-Fuzzes were made in 1968, and production continued until the late 70s.[1]
The first units were made in a simple stamped sheet metal box, painted grey, with a blue metal Univox sticker on the top. Around 1970 production was changed to a die-cast metal box, with a large pedal featuring a rubber cover that had the words "Super-Fuzz" embossed on it. The first die cast units were either grey or black, with a green or black foot pedal. Around 1973 or so, they were all produced with an orange pedal, with a green or blue foot pedal. The later models also featured an internal trim pot for controlling the octave balance.
Although the Univox units are the most well-known incarnation of this circuit, Shin-ei licensed this circuit out to dozens of manufacturers.[citation needed]
This fuzz is an octave fuzz using two germanium diodes to produce square wave clipping. 
The controls are 'Balance' (volume), 'Expander' (fuzz amount), a two position 'tone' switch, and an on/off footswitch on top. 
There are two unique features of this device that set it apart from other distortion and fuzz pedals. The first is that the full-wave rectification of the circuit produces an upper octave as well as a slight lower octave. This also gives the sound a lot of compression and gives a mild ring modulator effect. The second unique feature is a tone switch that engages a 1kHz filter that "scoops" the mids, giving a very fat, almost bassy tone, unique to this circuit.[2]
Notable musicians who have used the Super-Fuzz include:
The Łódź—Kutno railway is a railway line located in central Poland, in Łódź Voivodeship, connecting the city of Łódź with a railway station in Kutno via Zgierz, Ozorków and Łęczyca. The section between Łódź Widzew and Zgierz stations is a part of a railway ring around the city of Łódź.
Construction of the railway was commenced by Polish State Railways in 1920. In 1923 the partially finished section between Zgierz and Łęczyca was opened, three years later a link to Kutno was finished. The section between Zgierz and Widzew stations was finished in 1931. 
The railway was electrified within two stages: in 1969 (Łódź Widzew-Zgierz) and 1981 (Zgierz-Kutno).[1]
The railway line is currently used for both freight and passenger services. The section between Zgierz and Kutno is listed as the railway of national importance.[2] However, due to being single-track, the capacity of the railway is vastly limited, especially with regional passenger services from Łódź to Kutno.
The railway line is mainly served by ŁKA regional trains from Łódź Kaliska station to Kutno and commuter trains from Łódź Fabryczna station to Zgierz. Also, PolRegio trains from Łódź to Toruń, as well as PKP Intercity trains between Gdynia and Katowice, use this railway.
The railway is due to be refurbished, in order to allow a 20 kilometres per hour (12 mph) increase in operational speed.[3] There are plans to either build up a second track on Zgierz-Kutno section, or create new railway connecting these two stations, which will run mostly intercity passenger services.[4]
MSX-DOS is a discontinued disk operating system developed by Microsoft's Japan subsidiary for the 8-bit home computer standard MSX, and is a cross between MS-DOS v1.25 and CP/M-80 v2.2.
MSX-DOS and the extended BASIC with 3½-inch floppy disk support were simultaneously developed by Microsoft and ASCII Corporation as a software and hardware standard for the MSX home computer standard, to add disk capabilities to BASIC and to give the system a cheaper software medium than Memory Cartridges, and a more powerful storage system than cassette tape.[1] The standard BIOS of an unexpanded MSX computer had no built-in disk support, but provided hooks for a disk extension, so the additional floppy disk expansion system came with its own BIOS extension ROM (built-in on the disk controller) called the BDOS.
This BIOS not only added floppy disk support commands to MSX BASIC, but also a booting system, with which it was possible to boot a real disk operating system. 
MSX-DOS was binary compatible with CP/M-80, allowing the MSX computer to easily have access to its vast library of software available for a very small cost for the time.
Once MSX-DOS has been loaded, the system searches the MSX-DOS disk for the COMMAND.COM file and loads it into memory.[2]  In that case, the BDOS bypassed the BASIC ROMs, so that the whole 64 KB of address space of the Z80 microprocessor inside the MSX computer could be used for the DOS or for other boot-able disks, for example disk based games. At the same time, the original BIOS ROMs could still be accessed through a "memory bank switch" mechanism, so that DOS-based software could still use BIOS calls to control the hardware and other software mechanisms the main ROMs supplied. Also, due to the BDOS ROM, basic file access capabilities were available even without a command interpreter by using extended BASIC commands.
At initial startup, COMMAND.COM looks for an optional batch file named AUTOEXEC.BAT and, if it exists, executes the commands specified in there.[3] If MSX-DOS is not invoked and Disk BASIC starts, a BASIC program named "AUTOEXEC.BAS" will be carried out instead, if present.[3]
The following is a list of internal commands supported by MSX-DOS.[4]
On August 10, 1983, Paul Allen called Tim Paterson, original author of 86-DOS and MS-DOS 1.x, asking him to do a "Z80 version of MS-DOS" for the MSX standard.[5] At the time, Paterson was busy trying to get the first product of his startup Falcon Systems ready to go, so he suggested a few other developers, but Allen said he had already asked. Allen was in a hurry to get it done and nobody else could meet his timeline. Allen and Paterson finally agreed, and on August 17, they signed an agreement to do "Z80 MS-DOS 1.25" for US$100,000 and the rights for Paterson's company to distribute MS-DOS 2.0, 2.5, and 3.0 with a hardware product without royalty.[6]
For Paterson, this was mostly a translation process. He had already written a Z80-to-8086 assembly language translation program (TRANS.COM). In this case, he was manually translating in the other direction. Because MS-DOS 1.x was modelled after CP/M's API and was able to run CP/M applications that had been source-level translated to 8086, that would mean, MSX-DOS would be able to run CP/M programs directly.[6]
For this project, Paterson also wrote a Z80 emulator that ran under MS-DOS, which would allow him to do the entire development project under MS-DOS. The MSX-DOS he was writing had an I/O System layer, that interfaced directly to the I/O System layer of the MS-DOS machine, that was running the emulation.  This gave MSX-DOS direct access and control of the disk format. Most of the core code was file management, so this was necessary to test it out.[6]
By October 2, 1983, he had Microsoft BASIC and Microsoft M80 macro assembler running under MSX-DOS. He finished coding COMMAND.COM a few days later. He worked out some bugs and demonstrated MSX-DOS to Paul Allen on October 11. The beta test version was officially delivered on October 26, 1983. It included an easter egg, that printed Paterson's name.  The name was encoded with FAT code, so it could not be found by simply searching the file. After delivery of the beta version, the code was sent to ASCII in Japan. They created the I/O System for the MSX machine. That code was developed by Jay Suzuki. He figured out the easter egg and added his name to it.[6]
ASCII was having problems getting MSX-DOS working on the actual MSX machine. They had not provided an actual MSX machine to Paterson, and instead flew him to Tokyo on January 28, 1984, to help them. It turned out that ASCII had been modifying the code without telling Paterson, so they were not working from the same code base. Paterson spent three days in Tokyo figuring out the problems and came back to Seattle.[6]
Chris Larson from Microsoft and Jay Suzuki visited Paterson in Seattle at the end of February and early March 1984. They brought an MSX machine with an in-circuit emulator (ICE) for debugging. They got everything working and on April 23, 1984, Microsoft accepted delivery and made the final payment for MSX-DOS to Paterson.[6]
At the time MSX-DOS was written, there was only one popular disk operating system for 8-bit Intel 8080 compatible microprocessors, which was Digital Research's CP/M-80 system. It was also often used with Z80 systems, because the Z80 used an extended 8080 architecture. Microsoft's own disk operating system was also inspired by CP/M.
To be able to run (slightly modified) CP/M software Microsoft decided to implement functionality similar to major parts of the CP/M BIOS, routines that CP/M systems used to do specific disk operating tasks, such as opening files, etc. Instead of basing the command processor on CP/M's CCP, which was known for some user unfriendliness, a command line interpreter (COMMAND.COM) based on its MS-DOS counterpart was used.  Microsoft also chose its own FAT12 file system over CP/M's filing methods. This ensured that MSX-DOS floppies could be used on an MS-DOS machine, and that only one single formatting and filing system would be used. This was an important decision, because CP/M disks were often not interchangeable between machines, incompatible disk formatting schemes being a factor in this.
Microsoft also added a standard set of disk commands to MSX-DOS that were compatible with MS-DOS but not with CP/M. Finally they converted their pipelining system from MS-DOS to MSX-DOS. The resulting DOS was a system that was much user-friendlier than CP/M, but was (in principle) compatible with major CP/M software packages such as WordStar, Turbo Pascal and the "M80" assembler and "L80" linker.
The following commands are supported by MSX-DOS version 2.[7]
In addition, ASCII provided the following MSX-DOS2 Tools.[8]
Yaguchi (矢口, lit. arrow mouth) is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Ely Airport (IATA: ELY, ICAO: KELY, FAA LID: ELY) (Yelland Field) is a county-owned airport three miles northeast of Ely, in White Pine County, Nevada, United States.[1]
The Federal Aviation Administration says this airport had 239 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2008,[2] 216 in 2009 and 245 in 2010.[3] The National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2011–2015 categorized it as a general aviation airport.
Ely's first airline service began with United Airlines in 1955 providing one daily direct flight each to Salt Lake City and San Francisco using Convair 340 aircraft. The flight to San Francisco made stops in Elko and Reno, Nevada, as well as Sacramento and Oakland, California. Service was later upgraded using Douglas DC-6s that continued into 1970. This was United's last service using piston engine propeller aircraft. United then began a subcontract arrangement with Frontier Airlines (1950-1986) using Convair 580s for its Ely service. In 1977, United brought the service back in house using Boeing 737-200 jets flying a San Francisco - Reno - Elko - Ely - Salt Lake City - Denver route with one daily round trip.  Ely was the smallest destination ever to be served year round by United jets. United's service ended on April 1, 1982.
Scenic Airlines also served Ely from about 1973 through 1976 with flights to Las Vegas using Cessna 402 aircraft. Chaparral Aviation flew from Ely to several smaller communities throughout northern Nevada in 1981 and 1982.
With the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, service to Ely became subsidized under the Essential Air Service program so that the city would not lose all service. A series of commuter airlines then provided service to Ely.
SkyWest Airlines provided service to Salt Lake City (SLC) as well as Elko and Reno, Nevada, offering three daily flights each using Piper Navajo aircraft. In 1986, SkyWest began operating as Western Express, a code-share affiliate for Western Airlines which had built a major hub at SLC. Service was reduced to only one daily roundtrip to SLC using a larger Fairchild Swearingen Metroliner aircraft. Western Airlines merged with Delta Air Lines in 1987, and the SkyWest flight then took on the designation as Delta Connection. Service continued until 1996.
Alpine Aviation provided two daily flights to SLC from 1996 through 1999 using Piper Cheyenne aircraft.
Scenic Airlines returned to Ely from 1999 through 2006 with flights to North Las Vegas Airport and Elko Regional Airport. 
On November 12, 2006, Air Midwest began flights to McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas via Cedar City Regional Airport in Cedar City, Utah, using Beechcraft 1900Ds. The stop in Cedar City was due to the fact that McCarran Airport requires Transportation Security Administration screening not available at Ely.[4] The return flights operated nonstop from Las Vegas to Ely. The service began as America West Express, a feeder service for America West Airlines. America West merged with US Airways in 2007 at which time the service became US Airways Express. This service ended in mid-2008.
Great Lakes Aviation then took over serving Ely with Beechcraft 1900Ds as well. At first, a single flight to Denver was operated with a stop at Moab, Utah. In 2011, the service was switched to one daily nonstop flight to Las Vegas. Great Lakes service ended in March, 2013, as passenger traffic fell below the minimum required to maintain subsidies.  Ely has not seen scheduled airline service since.[5]
Ely Airport covers 4,999 acres (2,023 ha) at an elevation of 6,259 feet (1,908 m). It has two asphalt runways: 18/36 is 6,018 by 150 feet (1,834 x 46 m) and 12/30 is 4,825 by 60 feet (1,471 x 18 m).[1]
In the year ending July 31, 2011, the airport had 4,997 aircraft operations, average 13 per day: 54% air taxi, 32% general aviation, 11% airline and 3% military. 19 aircraft were then based here: 42% single-engine, 32% glider, and 26% ultralight.[1]
Arshak Adamian (1884–1956) was an Armenian conductor, composer, art critic, pedagogue. Merited Artist of the RA. He was the founding artistic director and Principal Conductor of Armenian Philharmonic Orchestra in 1924–1926.[1]
Adamian studied piano and composition at Schtern Conservatory in Berlin (1904–1906). Then he graduated from Law Department, St. Petersburg University. From 1924 to 1926 he was the Rector of Yerevan Conservatory, then worked as professor of Leningrad Conservatory.
The Frontkämpferprivileg (front-line fighter's privilege) was an exemption granted by the government of Nazi Germany between 1933 and 1935 to German Jews who had fought for Germany during the First World War but faced dismissal from official posts under anti-Jewish legislation in prewar Nazi Germany.
The "Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service" of 7 April 1933 aimed to force all "non-Aryans" to retire from the legal profession and civil service, and other anti-Jewish laws passed in 1933 sought to drive Jews out of other areas of public life. These moves prompted a protest from Captain Leo Löwenstein, the president of the Reich Association of Jewish Frontline Soldiers, who wrote to the Nazi leader Adolf Hitler to complain. He pointed out that of Germany's half-million Jewish population, 96,000 had served in the war and 12,000 had perished. He wrote:
After the blood sacrifices and services made to the homeland, we firmly believe that the German Jews are entitled to equal rights as citizens. However, it is with deep pain that we see how we are being dishonored and how wide circles of Jews are being deprived of the base of their economic existence.[1]It also met with the disapproval of Reich President Paul von Hindenburg, a former First World War Field Marshal, who wrote in a letter to Hitler:
In recent days, a number of cases have been reported to me in which judges, lawyers and court officials wounded in the war, with unblemished records, have been forced to retire and later have been discharged because they are of Jewish descent. For me, who with the explicit agreement of the government on the day of national awakening, on March 21, issued the proclamation to the German people in which I said I bowed reverentially before the dead and thought with gratitude on the survivors of the war, on the wounded and my old front-line comrades, such treatment of wounded Jewish officials is personally, absolutely insupportable.[2]Hindenburg insisted that Jewish former front-line soldiers and their sons must be allowed to continue in their jobs. The law of 7 April 1933 thus included a clause that exempted such people, creating the so-called Frontkämpferprivileg (front-line fighter privilege). To the surprise of the Nazis, nearly 50 per cent of the Jewish officials who faced dismissal were able to prove that they fell into this category.[3] However, the privilege was abolished after Hindenburg's death when the Nuremberg Laws of 1935 instituted systematic discrimination against Jews and deprived them of citizenship.[4]
See text
Corsia is a little-studied plant genus from the  monocotyledon family Corsiaceae. It was first described in 1877 by  Italian naturalist Odoardo Beccari and contains 25 species, all of which lack chlorophyll and parasitize fungi for nutrition. All 25 species are distributed through New Guinea, the Bismarck Archipelago, the Solomon Islands and Queensland, Australia.
In terms of appearance, the species of Corsia are quite uniform except for the flowers.[2] Chromosome counts are known only from two species: Corsia cornuta and C. clypeata. Both have a diploid number (2n) of 18.[2][3]
Corsia exist largely underground;[4] only the seldom-formed flower stems develop above ground. The fine, thread-like and hairless root system is weakly branched and whitish, spreading widely just beneath the surface. Several hairless, unbranched and upright flowering stems sprout from a rhizome and are visible above ground. They are usually reddish in color and are 10 to 28 cm (3.9 to 11.0 in) high. The xylem is woody and not perforated.
The foliage along the stem is evenly distributed, and consists of three to seven broadly ovate pointed leaves. Those on the rhizomes are less developed than the reddish leaves on the flowering stems. Along the stem the leaves grow alternately, at their bases they sheath the stem almost entirely.[4]
The growth of Corsia flowers appears to be triggered by combination of rain and drought, usually by a prolonged rainy season followed by several dry days. The zygomorphic, trimerous, nodding flowers grow singly and are terminal on the stems.[4] The tepals are colored pale red to brownish red, sometimes with a bit of pale yellow and rarely brownish-green.
The six tepals are approximately of the same shape and size, with the exception of the uppermost tepal, termed the labellum, which is considerably larger and usually heart-shaped.[4] The tepals of the species of section Sessilis are 4 to 15 mm (0.16 to 0.59 in) long and 0.5 to 2.5 mm (0.020 to 0.098 in) wide. The tepals of the section Unguiculatis are 3 to 8.5 mm (0.12 to 0.33 in) long and 1 to 3.5 mm (0.039 to 0.138 in) wide. The labellum is about 5 to 25 mm (0.20 to 0.98 in) long and 4 to 22 mm (0.16 to 0.87 in) wide. The labellum encloses the floral bud until its opening, thereby protecting immature floral parts. The labellum is usually simple, but is occasionally bifurcated at the tip of the midrib.
The labellum of Corsia is similar in appearance to the labellum of some orchids, but is not homologous to them;[5] in orchids the labellum is formed from an inner tepal (petal), but in Corsiaceae it forms from an outer tepal (sepal). In Corsia, unlike the orchids, all six stamens are fertile.[5]
After pollination (possibly by flies), the peduncles extend and a 3.5 cm (1.4 in) long and slender cylindrical yellowish brown capsule fruit forms. The small dust-like seeds are about 1 to 3.2 mm (0.039 to 0.126 in) long, 0.3 mm (0.012 in) thick and colored pale to dark brown. The seed coat tightly encloses the endosperm and its surface is finely grooved longitudinally.[6] Although the native habitat of Corsia is relatively calm, seed dispersal is presumed to be facilitated by wind (anemochory).[3]
Species of Corsia are generally found in floodplains and mountain forests at altitudes of 400 to 2,700 m (1,300 to 8,900 ft) above sea level. They grow in humus-rich soils in shaded areas of high humidity among decaying leaves.[4]
The center of diversity for the genus is New Guinea. All species are endemic to New Guinea (including the Bismarck Archipelago), the Solomon Islands, and Australia.[7]
Like other members of Corsiaceae, Corsia species lack chlorophyll and are thus incapable of photosynthesis. Instead, they are myco-heterotrophs, relying exclusively on parasitizing arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi for nutrition.[8] Myco-heterotrophs were once mistakenly thought to be saprotrophic plants. It is now known that they do not obtain nourishment directly from decaying organic matter, instead they digest the hyphae of saprotrophic fungi with enzymes and absorb the resulting nutrients.[9]
The host species of Corsia, and whether Corsia are even host specific, remains unknown. Corsia are sometimes found growing in association with other myco-heterotrophic plants like Burmannia, Sciaphila, and Cotylanthera tenuis.[citation needed]
Corsia is classified under the family Corsiaceae of the order Liliales. It is one of the three genera currently classified under Corsiaceae, the other two being Corsiopsis of China and Arachnitis of South America.[9] It differs from the latter two in having several shoots arising from creeping rhizomes.[10]
Corsia was first described in 1877 by the Italian naturalist Odoardo Beccari from specimens from New Guinea. He named it after the Marquis Bardo Corsi Salviati. It was classified under Burmanniaceae by the English botanist George Bentham in 1883 and grouped together with orchids (family Orchidaceae).[11]
In 1938, Fredrik Pieter Jonker separated Arachnitis and Corsia from Burmanniaceae based on their strongly zygomorphic floral characteristics. Kores et al. (1978) also separated Corsia from Burmanniaceae after comparing the chromosome numbers of C. cornuta and C. clypeata (2n = 18) with the rest of Burmanniaceae (2n=32 to 136). Dahlgren & Clifford (1982) tentatively reclassified Corsiaceae as closer to lilies (order Liliales) than to orchids. Cribb et al. (1995) noted the significant differences between Corsia and the only other member of Corsiaceae then - Arachnitis. In 1996, Ibisch et al. challenged the monophyly of Corsiaceae, positing that Arachnitis may actually be more closely related to Orchidaceae than Corsia and recommended the separation of the former into its own family, Arachnitaceae.[11][12]
Corsiopsis was discovered in 1999 by Zhang et al. and became the third genus included in the family Corsiaceae. Zhang also remarked that Corsiopsis seem to be more closely related to Corsia than to Arachnitis. Based on phylogenetic studies and reexamination of previous morphological studies, Neyland & Hennigan  (2003) concluded that Corsia is not closely related to Arachnitis. The former probably has closer affinities with Campynemataceae of Liliales, while the latter may be more closely related to Thismia and/or Burmannia of Dioscoreales.[9][11][13] However, Chase et al. (2006) concluded that Arachnitis falls within Liliales while Rudall & Eastman (2002) puts Corsia closer to either Campynemataceae or Thismia. As such, the taxonomic placement of Corsia and Corsiaceae remains problematic though they have been tentatively included in Liliales.[14]
Corsia contains two sections, Unguiculatis and Sessilis, with 25 species. They are listed below along with their distribution ranges:[7][15][16][17]
Section Unguiculatis P.Royen
Section Sessilis P.Royen
Kishwer Zehra (Urdu: کشور زہرہ) is a Pakistani politician who had been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan from August 2018 till August 2023.[1] Previously she was member of the National Assembly from March 2008 to May 2018.[2]
Zehra was elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan as a candidate of Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) from Sindh in the 2008 Pakistani general election.[3][4] She was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of MQM from Sindh in 2013 Pakistani general election[5][6] as well as to the National Assembly as a candidate of MQM-P from Sindh in 2018 Pakistani general election.[7]
In 2019, Zehra submitted a bill in the National Assembly which sought the creation of eight new provinces in Pakistan. It was met with great criticism from the Pakistan Peoples Party at centre and in Sindh.[8] On 27 July 2020, Zehra was unanimously elected chairperson of the standing committee on cabinet secretariat.[9]
In the previous parliament, she was nominated for the office of the prime minister of Pakistan, when Nawaz Sharif was disqualified by the Supreme Court of Pakistan amid the Panama Papers Case. She later withdrew her name from consideration to become the prime minister in favour of PML-N's Shahid Khaqan Abbasi. He was sworn in as the new prime minister on August 1, 2017.[10][11][12]
She is one of the candidates for the office of the governor of Sindh being considered by the federal government after the resignation of Imran Ismail, who resigned in protest against the ouster of former prime minister Imran Khan.[13][14]

This article about a Member of the National Assembly of Pakistan‎ is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kanwar Sandhu is an Indian politician and journalist.[1] He was elected as a member of Punjab Legislative Assembly from Kharar in 2017.[2] He did not contest the 2022 Assembly Elections.[3][4]
Kanwar Sandhu was born in 1955 in Sri Ganganagar, to father Hari Singh Sandhu and mother Rajbans Sandhu.His ancestors were from an agricultural family and with army background from Lahore division of Central Punjab.His family was allotted a piece of agricultural land in Sargodha district of West Punjab.
Later on his family moved to Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan.[5]
He did his schooling from Punjab Public school, Nabha in 1970. He went on to do B.A. from GNDU, Amritsar in 1974.After graduating with B.A., he did M.A. in English literature from GNDU, Amritsar in 1976.Afterwards Sandhu did Bachelor of Journalism from Panjab University in 1977.[6]
Kanwar Sandhu started his journalism career with the North Western India's premier English language newspaper "The Tribune". During the days of militancy, he worked with the "India Today" news magazine. Later on, Sandhu served as resident editor at the "Indian Express".
He has also served as the resident editor for "Hindustan Times".
In 2010, Sandhu organized a multi-language TV channel known as "DAY & NIGHT NEWS". This channel gave full coverage to all the divergent political points of view. His show "HELLO NORTH AMERICA" which was aired on this news channel became an instant hit.
Sandhu later joined "The Tribune" as its executive editor. He has also served as managing editor of "Day & Night News TV".[7]
Kanwar Sandhu defeated the veteran leader Jagmohan Singh Kang by a margin of over 2000 votes.[8][9] He was elected as a member of Punjab Legislative Assembly from Kharar in 2017 on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket.
After the Aam Aadmi Party came to power in 2022,Sandhu said "As Aam Aadmi Party sweeps Punjab, I along with team recall with pride pathbreaking work we did in preparing party’s manifesto for 2017 polls. Since I have stepped aside due to differences over autonomy and other issues, I am confident promises made then and now will be fulfilled."[10]
Norroy-le-Sec (French pronunciation: [nɔʁwa lə sɛk]) is a commune in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department in north-eastern France.

This Meurthe-et-Moselle geographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Wijs is a Dutch surname that may refer to the following notable people:
The Family Home Protection Act of 1976 is an Act of the Oireachtas which regulates an aspect of property law in Ireland and prevents the sale, partial sale, mortgage or re-mortgage of a property which is defined as a family home under the terms of the Act without the knowledge and consent of both spouses therein residing. A family home under the terms of the Act is a dwelling which is the ordinary residence of a married couple. The effect of the act is that, although the property may be in the registered ownership of one spouse only, this spouse cannot carry out transactions concerning the property – which could lead to the loss of the family home – without the other spouse's knowledge and consent.
The legislation was deemed necessary to deal with the large number of homes (especially farmhouses in rural Ireland) which, through inheritance or acquisition before marriage, were the legal property of one spouse only, to the potential detriment of (in most cases) the owner's wife. The Act provides protection for married couples only: common-law, cohabiting or same-sex couples are not protected under the Act. The Act, however, is only relevant in cases of single ownership; couples of all categories would be best advised to ensure both partners are the legally registered owners of their home.

Section 3 of the Act sets forth the requirement for consent: (1) Where a spouse, without the prior consent in writing of the other spouse, purports to convey any interest in the family home to any person except the other spouse, then, subject to subsections (2) and (3) and section 4, the purported conveyance shall be void.
[1]There are a number of issues here. First, the consent must be prior to the transaction. This requirement has been interpreted liberally. In Bank of Ireland v Hanrahan[2] it was held that a mortgage by deposit of title deeds was not created when the deeds were left overnight in the bank but rather the next morning when the defendant consented to the creation of the mortgage.
In Bank of Ireland v Smyth[3] it was held that consent had to be voluntary and fully informed. Although Mrs. Smyth had signed a consent form for the purposes of s.3, she was not aware of the implications of that consent and therefore it was held not to be valid.
The JTA are an English two-piece Britrock band from Newcastle upon Tyne/London.[1]
The JTA began 2019 by stating that they would release a new song every two weeks through their website.[1] Their anti-Brexit track "Water" was subsequently played on BBC Newcastle.[1] The band have performed at venues across the UK including O2 Academy Newcastle and gained a reputation for appearing on stage wearing Balaclavas.
The band are also known for their work with local charities, most frequently Teenage Cancer Trust.[2][3][4]
Mireuktang (Hangul: 미륵당; Hanja: 彌勒堂), also known as Beophwadang, built in 1959, is a shrine dedicated to Maitreya in Pajang-dong, Jangan-gu, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. It was designated as Local Cultural Heritage No. 5 by Suwon City Council on April 8, 1986.[1]
The small brick building, 3.1m in height, was built to house a statue of Maitreya, who was believed to protect the village where it stands. Only the upper half of the granite statue is exposed, with the lower half below ground. The upper body alone is about 2.44m in height, the chest is about 1.07m wide, and the head measures about 1.14 cm in height.[2] The statue is believed to represent a Maitreya combined with folk beliefs since the mid-Joseon Dynasty due to its sculpting technique. The statue is made from a single granite rock, and features an oval pedestal.
Tilsit cheese or Tilsiter cheese is a pale yellow semihard smear-ripened[2] cheese, created in the mid-19th century by Prussian-Swiss settlers, the Westphal family, from the Emmental valley. The original buildings from the cheese plant still exist in Sovetsk, Russia, formerly Tilsit, on the Neman River (also known as the Memel), in the former German province of East Prussia.[3]
The same ingredients to make the cheese were not available as in their home country, and the cheese became colonized by different moulds, yeasts, and bacteria in the humid climate. The result was a cheese that was more intense and full-flavoured. The settlers named the cheese after Tilsit, the Prussian town where they had settled.[3]
Tilsiter has a medium-firm texture with irregular holes or cracks. Commercially produced Tilsiter is made from pasteurized cow's milk, ranges from 30 to 60% milk fat,[4] and has a dark yellow rind. After the main part of its production, the cheese needs to rest for an additional 2 months.[5] Often flavoured with caraway seed and peppercorns, Tilsiter is a complement to hearty brown/rye breads and dark beers. It is a common table cheese, yet versatile. Tilsit can be eaten cubed in salads, melted in sauces, on potatoes, in flans, or on burgers.
Using the reimported recipe, Tilsiter has been manufactured in Switzerland since 1893 and in Germany since 1920, where it is known as the protected brand Holsteiner Tilsiter. Swiss Tilsiter is mainly produced in three varieties. A mild version (green label) is made from pasteurised milk, a more strongly flavoured one from fresh, unpasteurized milk (red label), and the yellow-labeled "Rahm-Tilsiter" is produced from pasteurized milk with added cream.[6]
After World War II, when Tilsit and the rest of northern East Prussia became the Soviet Kaliningrad Oblast district, Tilsiter-style cheeses were produced in Switzerland and Germany.
Tilsit cheese is now also made in Austria, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Russia, and Ukraine, and is marketed in the USA.
East Avenue is a major street located within the Diliman area of Quezon City, Philippines. It runs north–south through the eastern edge of Triangle Park. The street is located in Quezon City's government area, known for different national and local government institutions, offices, and hospitals.[2] It is also home to the Quezon City Hall Complex located on the avenue's junction with Elliptical Road. The entire avenue is designated as National Route 174 (N174) of the Philippine highway network.
East Avenue is a six-lane road located at the heart of Quezon City's government district. It begins at its junction with EDSA east of Timog Avenue by the border of barangay Pinyahan in central Diliman. It heads north from this junction to cross Magalang Street, NIA Road, V. Luna Avenue, Matapang Street, Sen. Miriam P. Defensor-Santiago Avenue (BIR Road), Matalino Street, Makatarungan Street, and Mayaman Street towards the Quezon Memorial Circle. The avenue terminates at the intersection with Elliptical Road.
Located on or near this southern section of East Avenue are the GMA–Kamuning MRT station, LTO Central Office, LTFRB Central Office, DPWH Region IV-A Offices, National Intelligence Coordinating Agency Office, Land Registration Authority Office, Philippine Statistics Authority main office, and the Social Security System Main Office. After crossing the Sen. Miriam P. Defensor-Santiago Avenue, the western section is dominated by more government establishments particularly medical institutions, including East Avenue Medical Center, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Security Plant Complex, Philippine Heart Center, Laguna Lake Development Authority headquarters, National Kidney and Transplant Institute, and the Quezon City Hall Complex.
Previously called as Silangan Avenue (Tagalog for east),[3] the avenue forms the eastern boundary of the formerly proposed 400-hectare (990-acre) Diliman Quadrangle within the former Diliman Estate, also known as Hacienda de Tuason, purchased by the Philippine Commonwealth government in 1939 as the new capital to replace Manila.[4] It was originally planned as the new city's Central Park housing the new national government buildings (the new presidential palace, Capitol Building, and Supreme Court complex) within the 25-hectare (62-acre) elliptical site now known as the Quezon Memorial Circle. The quadrangle is bordered on the north by North Avenue, on the east by East Avenue, on the south by Timog (South) Avenue, and on the west by West Avenue. Designed by American city planner William E. Parsons and Harry Frost, in collaboration with engineer AD Williams and architects Juan Arellano and Louis Croft, the site was also to contain the 15-hectare (37-acre) national exposition grounds opposite the corner of North Avenue and EDSA (now occupied by SM North EDSA).[4] The Diliman Quadrangle had been largely undeveloped for decades due to lack of funding. After several revisions, the government planners moved the city center to Novaliches due to its higher elevation.[5] By 1976, the country's capital had been transferred back to Manila with only the Quezon Memorial built in the former capital site. In 1984, the avenue, alongside Timog Avenue, was renamed to President Carlos P. Garcia Avenue, after the former president.[6]
The entire route is located in Quezon City.
Cohocton is a village in Steuben County, New York, United States. The population was 838 at the 2010 census. The name is derived from an Iroquois phrase for "log in the water."
The Village of Cohocton is in the southeast part of the Town of Cohocton, and is northwest of Bath, New York.
The village was once known as "Liberty,"  but changed its name to Cohocton when it was incorporated as a village in 1891. The Larrowe House, formerly occupied as The Cohocton Town and Village Hall, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1989.[2]  The Cohocton Historical Society acquired the house in August 2009.
Cohocton is located at 42°29′55″N 77°29′57″W﻿ / ﻿42.49861°N 77.49917°W﻿ / 42.49861; -77.49917 (42.498705, -77.499208).[3]
According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 1.5 square miles (3.9 km2), all land.
The village is next to  Interstate 390. New York State Route 371, New York State Route 415, and County Road 121 lead into the village.
Cohocton is on the Gang Mills (Painted Post) to Wayland Line of the B&H Rail Corp.  The B&H also has a spur which serves an industrial district on the east side of the Conhocton River.  The B&H's office and shops are located adjacent to the Gang Mills-Wayland line.
The Conhocton River flows southward through the village.
As of the census[5] of 2000, there were 854 people, 316 households, and 224 families residing in the village. The population density was 568.2 inhabitants per square mile (219.4/km2). There were 349 housing units at an average density of 232.2 per square mile (89.7/km2). The racial makeup of the village was 98.48% White, 1.17% Native American, and 0.35% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.12% of the population.
There were 316 households, out of which 38.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 49.1% were married couples living together, 13.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.1% were non-families. 24.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.68 and the average family size was 3.08.
In the village, the population was spread out, with 30.7% under the age of 18, 7.5% from 18 to 24, 27.8% from 25 to 44, 20.7% from 45 to 64, and 13.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 35 years. For every 100 females, there were 99.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 92.2 males.
The median income for a household in the village was $35,147, and the median income for a family was $38,438. Males had a median income of $30,057 versus $22,321 for females. The per capita income for the village was $13,660. About 13.5% of families and 15.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 18.8% of those under age 18 and 9.6% of those age 65 or over.
Moose (December 24, 1990 – June 22, 2006) was a wire-hair Jack Russell Terrier[4] who portrayed Eddie Crane on the American television Cheers spinoff sitcom Frasier.[5]
Moose was born on Christmas Eve, 1990, in Florida, the youngest littermate. He was the largest puppy in the litter. Like Pal, the original Lassie, the rambunctious puppy was too much for his original owner. According to an article by Lori Golden:
In fact, chasing cats was one of the activities that led to this troubled terrier becoming one of TV’s most precious pooches.  Originally owned by a Florida family, Sam and Connie Thise, Moose was too hard to handle.  He could not be house trained; he chewed everything; he dug and barked a lot; and he was constantly escaping and climbing trees.  Eventually given to the Florida manager of Birds and Animals Unlimited, a company that trains animals for TV and motion pictures, Moose was put on a plane at 2½ years old and sent to Mathilde de Cagny, an LA trainer working for the show-biz animal company.[6]Moose won the role on Frasier after only six months of training.  Moose had the ability to fix Kelsey Grammer with a long hard stare; this became a running sight gag on the show.[2]  When Moose had to lick his co-stars, however, sardine oil was applied upon the actors' faces. John Mahoney once revealed liver pâté was dabbed behind the actor's ears to make Moose nuzzle the actors.[2]
Moose had numerous television appearances and several magazine covers to his credit. There is an official Moose calendar and an "autobiography", My Life as a Dog, which was written by Brian Hargrove, husband of actor David Hyde Pierce who portrays Niles Crane in Frasier.
Moose spent the last six and a half years of his life in retirement in West Los Angeles with son Enzo, their trainer Mathilde de Cagny, her husband Michael Halberg, and Jill, the dog from As Good as It Gets. He died of natural causes at home at the age of 15 (incorrectly stated as 16) on June 22, 2006.
Alta Motors was an American manufacturer of off-road and dual-sport electric motorcycles based in Brisbane, California.[1]
Derek Dorresteyn, whose family has a long presence on the San Francisco motorcycle scene, started working on a bespoke electric bike in 2007.[3] He partnered with industrial designer Jeff Sand and entrepreneur Marc Fenigstein to found BRD Motorcycles in 2010. The acronym's meaning was only known to the founders and never disclosed.[4]
In 2011, Alta hired Viktor Pritzker, a former Director of Sales at Vectrix.[5] In 2013, Tesla co-founder Martin Eberhard joined the company's advisory board.[6]
After securing additional investors, BRD changed its name to the more evocative Alta Motors, a reference to its home region of Alta California—or North California.[4]
In March 2018, Alta Motors announced a partnership with Harley-Davidson for the development of future models of electric motorbikes. However, H-D walked out of the deal six months later, opting instead to set up its own research and development unit in the Silicon Valley.[2]
Following Harley-Davidson's divestment, the company was reported to be in negotiations with Canada's Bombardier Recreational Products for an injection of cash, but this did not happen and Alta Motors went out of business in late 2018.[7] BRP later did acquire some of Alta's technological assets from its creditors.[7]
A projected Redshift SMR model was registered with the NHTSA, but there is no evidence that it reached the market.[9]
The Redshift platform is the basis for the SilentHawk stealth dirtbike developed by military contractor Logos Technologies of Fairfax, Virginia.[10]
In 2017, the company also unveiled a prototype called the Redshift ST (for Street Tracker), which was pitched as a hybrid urban and flat track speedway machine.[11]
Due to debates regarding the equivalency between electric and combustion engines, Alta faced an uphill battle obtaining sanction to race in a major series, but the brand's products still showed up at a few established events.[3]
The Redshift MX made its professional debut in the Lites class of the 2016 Red Bull Straight Rhythm off-season tournament, advancing to the second round.[12] It returned in 2017, but was eliminated in the first round. On both occasions, the bike was ridden by Josh Hill.[13]
Also in 2017, Alta announced that it would feature in the SX2 class at a pair of SX Tour events, the Geneva Supercross and the Paris-Nanterre Supercross, thanks to an exemption granted by the tour's sanctioning body, the Fédération française de motocyclisme.[14] However, equipment shipping issues[15] limited its participation to the Geneva Supercross' Duel Cup, a side attraction consisting of four riders competing in best-of-three, one-on-one playoffs.[16] Hill won the second night, beating event spokesman Ricky Carmichael (Suzuki RM-Z450) in the final.[17]
Alta made its AMA EnduroCross Championship debut in Round 4 of the 2016 season with Veteran class rider Kurt Nicoll. Nicoll won the event in his class.[18]
In 2018, the company upped its efforts, signing Ty Tremaine as a regular entrant in the Pro class. His third-place finish in Round 3 was credited as the first podium placing by an all-electric bike in an AMA-sanctioned professional series.[19] However Alta Motors folded partway into the season, and Tremaine finished his campaign with Beta.[20]Tremaine, alongside Lyndon Poskitt, also took part in the 2018 Erzberg Rodeo hard enduro for Alta.[21]
Johnson Hollow is a valley in Oregon County in the U.S. state of Missouri.[1]
Johnson Hollow is named after Gilbert Johnson, an early settler.[2]
36°51′19″N 91°28′58″W﻿ / ﻿36.8553339°N 91.4829163°W﻿ / 36.8553339; -91.4829163

This Oregon County, Missouri state location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Galicia Sempre (English: Always Galicia, Ga.S) is a centre-left political party in Galicia, Spain, led by the mayor of Becerreá and ex-MP Manuel Martínez Núñez.
The party was created as the result of a split in the Lugo branch of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE).[2] The party defines itself as social democratic and galicianist. In the municipal elections of 2019 Ga.S won 9 local seats in three municipalities: Becerreá, Sarria and Meira.[3]

This article related to Galicia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a political party in Spain is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Akpassanou is a town in east-central Ivory Coast. It is a sub-prefecture of Ouellé Department in Iffou Region, Lacs District.
Akpassanou was a commune until March 2012, when it became one of 1126 communes nationwide that were abolished.[2]
In 2014, the population of the sub-prefecture of Akpassanou was 6,178.[3]
The 4 villages of the sub-prefecture of Akpassanou and their population in 2014 are:[3]
This Lacs District location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Patricia E. Kelly is an African-American cowgirl, founder, and CEO of the non-profit organization Ebony Horsewomen, Inc, in Hartford. She is a trained equestrian instructor certified as Master Urban Riding and Equine Husbandry instructor as well as Equine Assisted Growth specialist.[1]
Kelly, considered an equestrian trailblazer, has been recognized as one of CNN’s Top 10 Heroes of 2014 and as one of Aetna’s Champions for Change.[2]
Patricia was born and grew up in Hartford, Connecticut, one of the richest states in America but with great disparity between rich and poor. For this reason, she experienced the effects of inequality. From a young age, she was passionate about horse riding and horses and at nine years old she learned how to ride thanks to her neighbor, a Jewish grocer who owned a horse.[3]
She served the United States as a U.S. marine during the Vietnam War and in 1984 she founded Ebony Horsewomen, a non-profit organization.[4]
In 1984, Kelly founded Ebony Horsewomen intending to create an organization for the cultural and social enrichment of black women. In 1987 the organization changed to focus from women to children and began providing the city’s youth with a positive outlet. Nowadays, Ebony Horsewomen (EHI) is an urban riding center in Hartford Connecticut. Since its creation, it has helped the community's youth, families, adults, and military veterans through equine-assisted psychotherapy, therapeutic riding, and a variety of youth programs.[5]
Thanks to her work, she was chosen as one of the 2014 Top Ten CNN Heroes.
Count Joachim Karl Ludwig Mortimer von Maltzan (or Maltzahn), Freiherr von Wartenberg und Penzlin (15 April 1793 – 9 August 1843) was a Prussian diplomat and Foreign Minister from 1841 to 1842.
Maltzan was born on 15 April 1793 at Lissa Castle in Leśnica, Breslau, Poland. He was the son of the Count Joachim Alexander Kasimir Maltzahn and his wife Antoinie (née Countess von Hoym) Maltzahn. 
Maltzan participated in the War of the Sixth Coalition as an officer in the Prussian Garde du Corps. Then he joined the diplomatic service. At first, he was a legation secretary in various embassies. Later he was the chargé d'affaires in Darmstadt and envoy to The Hague, Hannover and Vienna. Lastly, he had the rank of minister plenipotentiary.[1]
In 1841 Maltzan was made Prussian Foreign Minister. Karl August Varnhagen von Ense reproduced a report by Wilhelm von Humboldt, according to which King Frederick William IV was more satisfied with Maltzan than with any other ministers, and had complete trust and confidence in him.[2] Due to a severe mental illness, however, he was dismissed in 1842, not long before his death in Berlin in 1843.
Maltzan married the Countess Auguste von der Goltz. Together, they were the parents of:
He died on 9 August 1843 in Berlin.

This German diplomat–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Francesco Chicchi (born 27 November 1980 in Camaiore) is an Italian retired professional road bicycle racer, who competed as a professional between 2003 and 2016 for the Fassa Bortolo, Liquigas–Doimo, Omega Pharma–Quick-Step, Neri Sottoli and Androni Giocattoli–Sidermec squads.
Alfred Olivier Hero Jr. (February 7, 1924 – January 20, 2006) was an American political scientist.
Hero was born on February 7, 1924, in New Orleans to parents  Alfred O. Hero Sr. and Effel A. Pearson. Hero Jr. graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1945, and served with the 309th Infantry Regiment, itself a part of the 78th Infantry Division, until 1948. Between 1948 and 1950, he attended Vanderbilt University, completing master's degrees in political science and psychology. From 1950, he worked in the Human Research Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Personnel, a division of the United States Department of the Army. Hero resigned from the army in 1953 to pursue a doctorate in international relations from George Washington University. He then worked as an editor for the journal International Organization and as executive secretary of the World Peace Foundation until 1982. Subsequently, he became a visiting scholar at Harvard University's Center for International Affairs and a visiting professor at the University of Toronto.[1]
Hero and his wife Barbara raised four children, including Alfred O. Hero III. Hero . died on January 20, 2006.[1]
Fertile Crescent:
Europe:
Africa:
Siberia:
The Epigravettian (Greek: epi "above, on top of", and Gravettian) was one of the last archaeological industries and cultures of the European Upper Paleolithic. It emerged after the Last Glacial Maximum around ~21,000 cal. BP or 19,050 BC, and is considered to be a cultural derivative of the Gravettian culture. Initially named Tardigravettian (Late Gravettian) in 1964 by Georges Laplace in reference to several lithic industries found in Italy,[4] it was later renamed in order to better emphasize its independent character.
Three subphases, the Early Epigravettian (20,000 to 16,000 BP), the Evolved Epigravettian (16,000 to 14,000 BP) and the Final Epigravettian (14,000 to 8,000 BP), have been established, that were further subdivided and reclassified.[5][6][7] In this sense, the Epigravettian is simply the Gravettian after ~21,000 BP,[is this date calibrated?] when the Solutrean had replaced the Gravettian in most of France and Spain.
Several Epigravettian cultural centers have developed contemporaneously after 22,000 years BP in Europe. These range across southern, central and most of eastern Europe, including south-western France, Italy, Southeast Europe, the Caucasus, Ukraine and Western Russia to the banks of the Volga River.
Its lithic complex was first documented at numerous sites in Italy. Great geographical and local variability of the facies is present, 
however all sites are characterized by the predominance of microliths, such as backed blades, backed points, and bladelets with retouched end.[8]
The Epigravettian is the last stage of the Upper Paleolithic succeeded by Mesolithic cultures after 10,000 BP.[9]
In a genetic study published in Nature in May 2016, the remains of an Epigravettian male from Ripari Villabruna in Italy were examined. He carried the paternal haplogroup R1b1 and the maternal haplogroup U5b. An Epigravettian from the Satsurblia Cave in Georgia, who was examined in a previous study, has been found to be carrying the paternal haplogroup J1 and the maternal haplogroup K3.[10]
In a genetic study published in Nature in March 2023, the authors found that the ancestors of the Mesolithic Western Hunter-Gatherers (WHGs) were populations associated with the Epigravettian culture, which largely replaced populations associated with the Magdalenian culture about 14,000 years ago. The Magdalenian-associated individuals descended from populations associated with the western Gravettian, Solutrean and Aurignacian cultures.[11][12]
The Last Mafioso: The Treacherous World of Jimmy Fratianno is a biographical novel detailing the life of American Mafia member Aladena "Jimmy the Weasel" Fratianno. It chronicles Fratianno's life from his childhood in Cleveland to becoming the acting Boss of the Los Angeles crime family. Author Ovid Demaris gained the information for the book from Fratianno himself in the early 1980s, where they spent hours recording the pair's conversations. Demaris also conducted his own research. The book was released on January 13, 1980 by Crown Publishing. It was the first of two biographical books written about Fratianno; the other is Vengeance is Mine (1987) by Michael J. Zuckerman.
The book begins in 1947 with Jimmy Fratianno becoming a made man in the Los Angeles crime family, then headed by Jack Dragna. It then goes back to Fratianno's early childhood, growing up in Cleveland, Ohio in the 1920s and 1930s. The book then generally follows a chronological timeline of Fratianno's life up to 1978, when under the threat of death, Fratianno decided to turn against his crime family and become an FBI government witness. Events covered include his three prison stints, two failed marriages, numerous girlfriends, five murders, working for the Chicago Outfit, running a successful trucking company, and attempts at buying into a Las Vegas casino.
The book is a revealing tale of life in the Mafia. It gave an in depth look at the Los Angeles crime family, The Chicago Outfit, and The Cleveland crime family. Amongst the notable mobsters prominently featured are Jack Dragna, Mickey Cohen, John Roselli, Sam Giancana, Frank Bompensiero, Louis Tom Dragna, Dominic Brooklier, Michael Rizzitello, Frank Tieri, Leo Moceri, John "Peanuts" Tronolone Toyota dealer Dominic Longo, and Peter Milano. With dozens of Mafiosi and their connections featured in the book, it quickly became an important source of the Mafia's history and workings. Notable non-mobsters featured are Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin and Joseph Alioto.
Being a close associate and friend of Fratianno, Johnny Roselli's life is also detailed (he is one of the few mobsters Fratianno speaks highly of, the others being Mike Rizzitello and Leo "Lips" Moceri). The book describes conversations the two had about Roselli's involvement in the CIA's plot to assassinate Fidel Castro. Details were revealed over 25 years before the plot, known as "Family Jewels", became declassified in 2007. The book also mentions Roselli's alleged involvement in the John F. Kennedy assassination, but dismisses the notion that the Mafia had anything to do with the murder.
This book, while comprehensive, has a few factual inaccuracies. It states several times that Jack Dragna died in 1957 when he actually died on February 23, 1956. The book also describes casino owner Mert Wertheimer as being murdered in Reno, Nevada, when he actually died of leukemia.[1]

This article about a biographical novel of the 1980s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
This is a list of Bien de Interés Cultural landmarks in the Province of Cuenca (Spain), Spain.[1][2][3]
The Christmas Oratorio (German: Weihnachtsoratorium), BWV 248, is an oratorio by Johann Sebastian Bach intended for performance in church during the Christmas season. It is in six parts, each part a cantata intended for performance in a church service on a feast day of the Christmas period. It was written for the Christmas season of 1734 and incorporates music from earlier compositions, including three secular cantatas written during 1733 and 1734 and a largely lost church cantata, BWV 248a. The date is confirmed in Bach's autograph manuscript. The next complete public performance was not until 17 December 1857 by the Sing-Akademie zu Berlin under Eduard Grell.[1] The Christmas Oratorio is a particularly sophisticated example of parody music.[2] The author of the text is unknown, although a likely collaborator was Christian Friedrich Henrici (Picander).
The work belongs to a group of three oratorios written in 1734 and 1735 for major feasts, the other two works being the Ascension Oratorio (BWV 11) and the Easter Oratorio (BWV 249). All three of these oratorios to some degree parody earlier compositions.[2] The Christmas Oratorio is by far the longest and most complex work of the three.[3]
The first part (for Christmas Day) describes the Birth of Jesus, the second (for 26 December) the annunciation to the shepherds, the third (for 27 December) the adoration of the shepherds, the fourth (for New Year's Day) the circumcision and naming of Jesus, the fifth (for the first Sunday after New Year) the journey of the Magi, and the sixth (for Epiphany) the adoration of the Magi.
The running time for the entire oratorio is around three hours. In concert performance, it is often presented split into two parts.
In the liturgical calendar of the German reformation era in Saxony, the Christmas season started on 25 December (Christmas Day) and ended on 6 January (Epiphany). It was preceded by Advent, and followed by the period of the Sundays after Epiphany. It included at least three feast days that called for festive music during religious services: apart from Christmas (Nativity of Christ) and Epiphany (Visit of the Magi) the period also included New Year's Day (1 January), in Bach's time still often referred to as the Feast of the Circumcision of Christ. Also 26 and 27 December (second and third day of Christmas) were commonly considered feast days, with festive music in church. If a Sunday fell between 27 December and 1 January, also on this first Sunday after Christmas a church service with music was held, and similar for a Sunday between 1 and 6 January (second Sunday after Christmas, or: first Sunday after New Year).
Before Bach composed his Christmas Oratorio for the 1734–35 Christmas season in Leipzig, he had already composed Christmas cantatas and other church music for all seven occasions of the Christmas season:
Four of these third cycle cantatas for the Christmas season, BWV 110, 57, 151 and 16, were on a text from Georg Christian Lehms's Gottgefälliges Kirchen-Opffer cantata libretto cycle, which had been published in 1711.[26][27] In the second half of the 1720s Bach often collaborated with Picander as a librettist for his cantatas. The Shepherd Cantata, BWV 249a, first performed on 23 February 1725, one of Bach's secular cantatas, is an early example of such cantata.[28] Bach reused the music of this cantata in the 1725 first version of his Easter Oratorio.[29] Ihr Häuser des Himmels, ihr scheinenden Lichter, BWV 193a, composed in 1727, is another secular cantata on a text by Picander which was, shortly after its first performance, reworked into a sacred cantata (Ihr Tore zu Zion, BWV 193).[30] In 1728–29 Picander published a cantata libretto cycle, leading to at least two further Christmas season cantatas by Bach:
A Christmas oratorio presented as a cycle of six cantatas, to be performed on several days during the Christmas period, was not uncommon in Bach's day: Gottfried Heinrich Stölzel, whose church music was not unknown to Bach and Leipzig churchgoers,[33] had composed such Christmas oratorios in 1719 and 1728.[34][35][36]
In the early 1730s, Bach composed a number of secular cantatas, including:
Movements from the BWV 213, 214 and 215 cantatas form the basis of several movements of the Christmas Oratorio.[38][39][40] In addition to these sources, the sixth cantata is based on a largely lost church cantata, BWV 248a, of which at least the opening chorus is based on the lost secular cantata BWV 1160.[37][41] The trio aria in Part V "Ach, wenn wird die Zeit erscheinen?" is believed to be from a similarly lost source, and the chorus from the same section "Wo ist der neugeborne König" is from the 1731 St Mark Passion, BWV 247.[42]
Like for most of his German-language church music, Bach used Lutheran hymns, and their Lutheran chorale tunes, in his Christmas Oratorio.[45][46][47] The first chorale tune appears in the 5th movement of Part I: it is the tune known as Herzlich tut mich verlangen, that is, the same hymn tune which Bach used in his St Matthew Passion for setting several stanzas of Paul Gerhardt's "O Haupt voll Blut und Wunden" ("O Sacred Head, Now Wounded"). The same melody reappears in the last movement of the oratorio (No. 64, closing chorale of Part VI). In the oratorio there is, however, no association with the pain and suffering evoked in the Passion.[48]
Martin Luther's 1539 "Vom Himmel hoch, da komm ich her" melody appears in three chorales: twice on a text by Paul Gerhardt in Part II of the oratorio, and the first time, in the closing chorale of Part I, with the 13th stanza of Luther's hymn as text. A well-known English version of that stanza is "Oh, my dear heart, young Jesus sweet", the first stanza of "Balulalow", as, for instance, sung by Sting:[49][50]

Ach mein herzliebes Jesulein,
Mach dir ein rein sanft Bettelein,
Zu ruhn in meines Herzens Schrein,
Dass ich nimmer vergesse dein!
Oh, my deir hert, young Jesus sweit,
Prepare thy creddil in my spreit,
And I sall rock thee in my hert,
And never mair from thee depart.
The Christmas Oratorio is exceptional in that it contains a few hymn settings, or versions of hymn tunes, for which there is no known earlier source than Bach's composition:[51][52]
There are very few known hymn tunes by Bach (he used Lutheran hymn tunes in the large majority of his sacred compositions, but rarely one of his own invention): apart from what can be found in the Christmas Oratorio, there appears to be one, partly inspired by a pre-existing melody, in the motet Komm, Jesu, komm, BWV 229 (composed before 1731–32),[58] and at least one entirely by Bach, "Vergiss mein nicht, vergiss mein nicht", BWV 505, in Schemellis Gesangbuch (published in 1736).[59]
Like for his other oratorios, and his Passion settings, Bach employed a narrative based on the Gospel in his Christmas Oratorio. The Gospel narrative of this oratorio followed, to a certain extent, the respective Gospel readings of the church services where the six cantatas of the Christmas Oratorio were to be performed for the first time. The six services of the Christmas season 1734–35 where the oratorio's cantatas were to be performed had these Gospel readings:
As usual in most of his oratorios, and all of his Passions, the Evangelist character enunciated the Gospel text in sung recitatives, except the passages in direct speech, which were sung by soloists or choral groups representing the characters who spoke these texts according to the Gospel narrative. The Gospel text included by Bach in his six Christmas Oratorio cantatas consists of:
The Gospel readings for the Third Day of Christmas (Prologue of the Gospel of John), and for the Sunday after New Year (the Flight to Egypt) are not directly used in the Christmas Oratorio. In detail:
The oratorio was written for performance on six feast days of Christmas during the winter of 1734 and 1735. The original score also contains details of when each part was performed. It was incorporated within services of the two most important churches in Leipzig, St. Thomas and St. Nicholas. As can be seen below, the work was only performed in its entirety at the St. Nicholas Church.
First performances:
The ease with which the new text fits the existing music is one of the indications of how successful a parody the Christmas Oratorio is of its sources. Musicologist Alfred Dürr[71] and others, such as Christoph Wolff[72] have suggested that Bach's sometime collaborator Picander (the pen name of Christian Friedrich Henrici) wrote the new text, working closely with Bach to ensure a perfect fit with the re-used music. It may have even been the case that the Christmas Oratorio was already planned when Bach wrote the secular cantatas BWV 213, 214 and 215, given that the original works were written fairly close to the oratorio and the seamless way with which the new words fit the existing music.[72]
Nevertheless, on two occasions Bach abandoned the original plan and was compelled to write new music for the Christmas Oratorio. The alto aria in Part III, "Schließe, mein Herze" was originally to have been set to the music for the aria "Durch die von Eifer entflammten Waffen" from BWV 215. On this occasion, however, the parody technique proved to be unsuccessful and Bach composed the aria afresh. Instead, he used the model from BWV 215 for the bass aria "Erleucht' auch meine finstre Sinnen" in Part V. Similarly, the opening chorus to Part V, "Ehre sei dir Gott!" was almost certainly intended to be set to the music of the chorus "Lust der Völker, Lust der Deinen" from BWV 213, given the close correspondence between the texts of the two pieces. The third major new piece of writing (with the notable exception of the recitatives), the sublime pastoral Sinfonia which opens Part II, was composed from scratch for the new work.
In addition to the new compositions listed above, special mention must go to the recitatives, which knit together the oratorio into a coherent whole. In particular, Bach made particularly effective use of recitative when combining it with chorales in no. 7 of part I ("Er ist auf Erden kommen arm") and even more ingeniously in the recitatives nos. 38 and 40 which frame the "Echo Aria" ("Flößt, mein Heiland"), no. 39 in part IV.
Until 1999 the only complete English version of the Christmas Oratorio was that prepared in 1874 by John Troutbeck for the music publisher Novello.[73] A new edition has been worked up by Neil Jenkins.
The structure of the story is defined to a large extent by the particular requirements of the church calendar for Christmas 1734/35. Bach abandoned his usual practice when writing church cantatas of basing the content upon the Gospel reading for that day in order to achieve a coherent narrative structure. Were he to have followed the calendar, the story would have unfolded as follows:
This would have resulted in the Holy Family fleeing before the Magi had arrived, which was unsuitable for an oratorio evidently planned as a coherent whole. Bach removed the content for the Third Day of Christmas (27 December), John's Gospel, and split the story of the two groups of visitors—Shepherds and Magi—into two. This resulted in a more understandable exposition of the Christmas story:
The Flight into Egypt takes place after the end of the sixth part.
That Bach saw the six parts as comprising a greater, unified whole is evident both from the surviving printed text and from the structure of the music itself. The edition has not only a title—Weihnachts-Oratorium—connecting together the six sections, but these sections are also numbered consecutively. As John Butt has mentioned,[74] this points, as in the Mass in B minor, to a unity beyond the performance constraints of the church year.
Bach expresses the unity of the whole work within the music itself, in part through his use of key signatures. Parts I and III are written in the keys of D major, part II in its subdominant key G major. Parts I and III are similarly scored for exuberant trumpets, while the Pastoral Part II (referring to the Shepherds) is, by contrast, scored for woodwind instruments and does not include an opening chorus. Part IV is written in F major (the relative key to D minor) and marks the furthest musical point away from the oratorio's opening key, scored for horns. Bach then embarks upon a journey back to the opening key, via the dominant A major of Part V to the jubilant re-assertion of D major in the final part, lending an overall arc to the piece. To reinforce this connection, between the beginning and the end of the work, Bach re-uses the chorale melody of Part I's "Wie soll ich dich empfangen" in the final chorus of Part VI, "Nun seid ihr wohl gerochen"; this choral melody is the same as of "O Haupt voll Blut und Wunden", which Bach used five times in his St Matthew Passion.
The music represents a particularly sophisticated expression of the parody technique, by which existing music is adapted to a new purpose. Bach took the majority of the choruses and arias from works which had been written some time earlier. Most of this music was 'secular', that is written in praise of royalty or notable local figures, outside the tradition of performance within the church.[75]
The scoring below[74] refers to parts, rather than necessarily to individual players. Adherents of theories specifying small numbers of performers (even to 'One Voice Per Part') may however choose to use numbers approaching one instrument per named part.
Each section combines choruses (a pastoral Sinfonia opens Part II instead of a chorus), chorales and from the soloists recitatives, ariosos and arias.
By notational convention the recitatives are in common time.
Recitative (bass)
Wer will die Liebe recht erhöhn
The first English-language monograph on the Christmas Oratorio was published in 2004.[92] It was a translation of a 2002 Dutch-language study by Ignace Bossuyt [fr; nl].[93]
Richard Carlton Matula [muh-tu'-la] (born November 22, 1953) is a former starting pitcher in Major League Baseball who played from 1979 to 1981 for the Atlanta Braves. Listed at 6' 0", 190 lb., he batted and threw right handed.
Born in Wharton, Texas, Matula was originally selected by the Montreal Expos in the 16th round of the 1972 MLB Draft. But he chose not to sign, instead going on to attend Sam Houston State University. He was drafted again by the Braves in the 14th round of the 1976 draft, and after signing was assigned to the Kingsport Braves. There, Matula went 3–5 with a 2.63 ERA in 20 appearances (48 innings pitched). He also appeared in three games for the Greenwood Braves, posting a 1–0 record and 7.50 ERA in six innings. Overall that season, Matula went 4–5 with a 3.17 ERA in 54 innings.
In 1977, Matula split time between the Greenwood Braves and Savannah Braves. With Greenwood, he went 2–1 with a 2.14 ERA in 21 innings of work. With Savannah, he went 8–5 with a 3.24 ERA in 100 innings (22 games). Combined, he went 10–6 with a 3.05 ERA.
Matula went a combined 10–5 with a 3.12 ERA in 127 innings in 1978. He split time between the Savannah Braves and Richmond Braves.
On April 8, 1979, Matula made his major league debut at the age of 25. Although he gave up no walks and only two earned runs in seven innings of work, he still lost against the Houston Astros starter, Joe Niekro (Niekro pitched a complete game shutout).
He made 28 starts in his rookie season, going 8–10 with a 4.15 ERA in 171.1 innings. He was ahead in most of the 10 games that didn't get the statistic for, when the reliever took the loss. Not a strikeout pitcher, he walked 64 batters and struck out only 67. In 1980, Matula made 33 appearances (30 starts), going 11–13 with a 4.58 ERA. In 176.2 innings, he struck out only 62 batters and his 13 losses were the ninth most in the league.
For the majority of the 1981 season, Matula was in the minors, with the Richmond Braves. He appeared in 16 games for them, making 11 starts and going 7–4 with a 2.97 ERA. He didn't do so well in the majors, making five relief appearances and posting an ERA of 6.43. He played his final major league game on June 11 that year.
On March 29, 1982, he was released by the Braves. He played for the Evansville Triplets in the Detroit Tigers organization and Denver Bears in the Texas Rangers organization, going a combined 3–8 with a 5.62 ERA in 36 appearances, (10 starts).
Overall, Matula made 66 appearances in the majors (58 starts). He went 19–23 with a 4.41 ERA, striking out 129 batters and walking 126 in 355 innings of work. As a batter, he hit .099 in 111 at bats, walking three times and striking out 48 times.
The 1571 siege of Fukazawa castle was one of a number of battles which formed Takeda Shingen's campaigns against the Hōjō clan, during Japan's Sengoku period. 
Having burned the town of Odawara surrounding the Hōjō home castle two years earlier, Takeda Shingen laid siege to a number of other Hōjō holdings in the surrounding provinces, including Fukazawa castle, in Suruga Province.
This was the sixth time he had invaded Suruga; Fukazawa castle was held by Hōjō Tsunashige, who ultimately surrendered and withdrew to Tamanawa Castle.[1]
This article about a historical Japanese battle is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Laguna Redonda Airport (ICAO: SCIO) is an airstrip 55 kilometres (34 mi) south-southwest of Candelario Mancilla, in the O'Higgins commune, Aisén del General Carlos Ibañez del Campo Region of Chile.
The runway is in a canyon off the main channel of Lake O'Higgins, very near the border with Argentina. There is mountainous terrain in all quadrants and limited room to maneuver within the canyon.[2]

This article about an airport in Chile is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Louise Anne de Bourbon, Mademoiselle de Charolais (23 June 1695 – 8 April 1758) was a French princess, the daughter of Louis III de Bourbon, Prince of Condé. Her father was the grandson of le Grand Condé, while her mother, Louise Françoise de Bourbon, was the eldest surviving legitimised daughter of Louis XIV of France and his maîtresse-en-titre, Madame de Montespan.
Born at the Palace of Versailles, Louise Anne was the fourth child and third daughter of her parents. Her eldest sisters were Marie Anne Gabrielle Éléonore de Bourbon and Louise Élisabeth de Bourbon. She was baptised in the chapel of Versailles on 24 November 1698 with her brother Louis Henri and her sister Louise Élisabeth.
Louise Anne's father died in 1710, eleven months after having inherited the title of Prince de Condé at the death of his own father. Since her first cousin, Louis d'Orléans, never had a daughter who survived into adulthood, Louise Anne became known at court by the style of Mademoiselle, which she held from 1728 when Louis' daughter, Louise Marie d'Orléans, died at the age of one.
During the Régence of her cousin, Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, she became romantically involved with the Duke of Richelieu, a grandnephew of Cardinal Richelieu. At the same time, the Duke of Richelieu also began an affair with Louise Anne's first cousin, Charlotte Aglaé d'Orléans, known at court as Mademoiselle de Valois. The two cousins, rivals in love, would later both fight fiercely, but separately, for the liberation of the duke from his incarceration in the Bastille due to his participation in the Cellamare Conspiracy.
Louise Anne never married. At one time, she was considered as a possible bride for her cousin, Louis Auguste, Prince of Dombes, but she refused.  Another proposed husband was the Duke of Chartres, the son of the Regent, and heir to the House of Orléans. His mother, however, wanted a more prestigious marriage for her son with a young German princess.
Voltaire, a friend of Richelieu, wrote the following verse concerning Louise-Anne:
As the years passed, Louise Anne constantly intrigued for political prominence. She would later help her cousin Louis XV in his search for new mistresses. It was common gossip at the time that Louise Anne was actually one of the king's former mistresses; that she was his first unofficial sexual partner after his wife, possibly as early as the late 1720s, and that they had an on-and-off-affair for a few years and that she introduced him to prospective new mistresses.[1] However, other contemporaries claim that while Louise Anne did wish to become his lover and did attempt to seduce him, she never actually succeeded to become his mistress.[2] The king did, in any case, enjoy her company, and she belonged to his circle of personal friends and frequently attended court. Louise Anne's older sister, Louise Élisabeth, introduced Madame de Pompadour to the French court in the 1740s.[citation needed]
Louise Anne owned several estates. In 1735, she became the owner of the Hôtel de Rothelin-Charolais in Paris, which became her townhouse.    She would later sell the lands at Vallery, in the Bourgogne province of France, which had been the traditional burial place of her Condé ancestors.    She also owned various châteaux such as the one at Athis outside Paris. She later sold the estate of Charolais to the Crown and in return got land in Palaiseau, which further augmented her personal real estate holdings.
Louise Anne died in Paris, at the Hôtel de Rothelin-Charolais, at the age of sixty-two. She was buried in the Carmelite Convent of the Faubourg Saint-Jacques. Her brother, Louis Henri, Duke of Bourbon, and her two sisters, Marie Anne de Bourbon and Élisabeth Alexandrine de Bourbon, were also buried there.
Rune Jansson (29 May 1932 – 24 November 2018) was a Swedish Greco-Roman wrestler. He competed at the 1956 and 1960 Olympics and won a bronze medal in 1956. He won another bronze at the 1958 World Championships, finishing fourth in 1955 and 1962.[1][2]

This article about a Swedish Olympic medalist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article relating to a Swedish sport wrestler or wrestling coach is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Daliyat al-Karmel (Arabic: دَالِيَةِ ٱلْكَرْمِل, Hebrew: דַלְיַת אֶל-כַּרְמֶל, "vineyards (دالية) of Carmel") is a Druze town located on Mount Carmel in the Haifa District of Israel, around 20 km southeast of Haifa. In 2021 its population was 18,001.[3]
In 1283 both Daliyat al-Karmel and  Kh.  Doubel (just south of Daliyat al-Karmel) were mentioned as part of the domain of the Crusaders, according to the hudna between the Crusaders in Acre and the Mamluk sultan Qalawun.[4]
In 1870 a local guide showed French explorer Victor Guérin extensive ruins located south of Daliyat al-Karmel, called Khirbet Doubel. The ruins were the most extensive on Mount Carmel. Guérin thought it might be the town on Mt. Carmel mentioned by Pliny.[5] Conder and Kitchener of the Palestine Exploration Fund surveyed the area and noted  "traces of ruins" at a place SE of the village centre called Dubil.[6] Later excavations have found remains there from Iron Age I, Early Roman and  Byzantine periods,[7] together with pottery from first century to the second–third centuries CE.[8] Although inconclusive, Lieutenant Conder thought that Daliyat al-Karmel was to be identified with the biblical Idalah (Joshua 19:15).[9]
Mount Carmel was progressively settled by Druze beginning in the early 17th century, when a large part of Palestine came under the jurisdiction of Fakhr al-Din II, the paramount Druze strongman of Mount Lebanon and Ottoman governor of the Sidon-Beirut and Safad districts.[10] Druze from the Yamani tribo-political faction may have also migrated to Mount Carmel from Mount Lebanon in the aftermath of the Battle of Ain Dara in 1711, though most of the migration was directed to the Jabal Hauran.[10] Six out of the eight Druze villages established on Mount Carmel were abandoned or destroyed during Egyptian rule in the Levant (1831–1840).[11] The local accounts recorded by Laurence Oliphant, who built himself a summer house in Daliyat al-Karmil in the 1880s, hold that the villages were abandoned for Jabal Hauran due to the oppressive rule of the governor Ibrahim Pasha, while Conder noted that the villages were destroyed by Ibrahim Pasha. Daliyat al-Karmil and Isfiya were the sole Druze settlements left standing on Mount Carmel.[12] The local traditional trace Daliyat al-Karmel's founding to the 18th century when a Druze family from Jabal al-A'la near Aleppo settled on ancient ruins in the village.[13] Successive waves of Druze families from Jabal al-A'la followed and together they formed the Halaby ("Aleppine") clan.[13] Until today the Halaby clan of the town speaks in the Aleppine Arabic dialect rather than the Palestinian dialect.[14]
In 1870 Guérin found four hundred Druze inhabitants in Daliyat al-Karmel. The houses were mostly built of adobe, with only a few stone houses. The locals worshiped inside a cave, where the explorer was not allowed.[15] In 1881 the Palestine Exploration Fund's Survey of Western Palestine described the village as a "stone village of moderate size on a knoll of one of the spurs running out of the main watershed of Carmel. On the south there is a well, and fine springs on the west, near Umm esh Shukf. On the north is a little plain or open valley cultivated with corn (Merjat ed Dalieh). The inhabitants are all Druses."[16] A population list from about 1887 showed that Daliyat al-Karmel had about 620 inhabitants, all Druze.[17]
In the 1922 census of Palestine conducted by the British Mandate authorities, Daliyat al-Karmel had a population of 993; 921 Druse and 21 Christians,[18] increasing in the 1931 census when Daliyat al-Karmel, together Deir el Muhraqa and  Khirbat al-Mansura had a total population of 1,173, of whom 1,154 were Druze, 11 were Christians and 8 were Muslims, living in a total of 236 houses.[19] In the 1945 statistics the population of Daliyat al-Karmel consisted of 2,060 Arabs,[20] (20 Christians and 2,040 Druze).[21] The land area was 31,730 dunams, according to an official land and population survey,[20] of which 1,506 dunams were designated for plantations and irrigable land, 18,174 for cereals,[22] and 60 were built-up (urban) areas.[23]
An Israeli census conducted in November 1948 found 2,932 residents. At the end of 1951 the figure dropped to 2,769.[24]
The town was granted local council status that year. In 2003 Daliyat al-Karmel was merged with Isfiya to form Carmel City.[25] In 2008, the communities became separate once again. The town is famous for its colorful market.[26]
In 2010, El Al, Israel's national airline, named one of its Boeing 767 airplanes Daliyat al-Karmel. Sheikh Muafak Tarif, leader of the Druze community, was presented with a miniature model of the plane at a special ceremony.[27] According to Israel Central Bureau of Statistics, in 2016 Daliyat al-Karmel's population was 17,000. The majority of residents are Druze (97.2%), with Muslim (2.7%) and Christian (0.1%) minorities.[28]
The shrine of Abu Ibrahim, whom the Druze consider a prophet, is in the oldest part of the town.[29]
Close by the Abu Ibrahim shrine is the home of Sir Laurence Oliphant, who spent his summers there in the 1880s with his wife Alice, and his secretary Naftali Herz Imber.[29] The building functions as a museum, the Druze Memorial Center, commemorating the 505 Druze IDF soldiers who have died in the line of duty since 1948.[30][31]
Sir Laurence Oliphant, was a South African-born British author, traveller, diplomat, British intelligence agent, Christian mystic, and Christian Zionist. His best known book in his lifetime was a satirical novel, Piccadilly (1870).[32]
The Catholic Muhraqa Monastery is located 2 kilometres southeast of Dalyat al-Karmel and marks the contest between prophet Elijah and the priests of Ba'al. It belongs to the Carmelite Order.[33] Also the Catholic complex includes a chapel that was built in 1883, and gardens which includes a Virgin Mary Statue, and the lodgings of monks from the Carmelite Order.[34]
The Carmel Center for Druze Heritage is a hands-on museum of the history, religion and culture of the Druze.[35][26]
In 2011, the Garden of the Mothers was inaugurated in Daliyat al-Karmel, symbolizing the sisterhood of Christian, Druze, Jewish, and Muslim women who work together in northern Israel. Forty-four trees were planted in memory of the 44 Israel Prison Services personnel who died in the Mount Carmel forest fire in 2010.[36]
In 2012, a tennis school financed by the Freddie Krivine Foundation opened in Daliyat al-Karmel and 12 youngsters take part in a weekly co-existence program with children at the Israel Tennis Center in Yokneam.[37]
Daliyat al-Karmel and Isfiya joined Yokneam Illit and the Megiddo Regional Council to develop the Mevo Carmel Jewish-Arab Industrial Park [38] to benefit from the existing high-tech ecosystem.[39][40]
In 2007, Daliyat al-Karmel signed a partnership agreement with Ungheni, Moldova. In 2008, the Ambassador of Moldova, Larisa Miculet visited Daliyat al-Karmel at the invitation of the mayor, Akram Hasson.[41]
Abigail Rencheli (born April 5, 2002) is a  Moldovan-born American tennis player.
She represented Moldova until October 2022, then started playing for the United States.[1]
Rencheli has won four doubles titles on the ITF Women's Circuit. On 7 August 2023, she reached her best singles ranking of world No. 1025. On 6 November 2023, she peaked at No. 288 in the WTA doubles rankings.[2]
Partnering Alana Smith, Rencheli won her first $60k tournament in July 2023 at the Saskatoon, Canada, defeating Stacey Fung and Karman Thandi in the final.[3]
She plays college tennis at North Carolina State.[4]
Olenecamptus olenus is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Gahan in 1904.[1]

This Dorcaschematini article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Velington Rocha (born 24 May 1991) is an Indian professional footballer who plays as a midfielder.
Born in Salcette, Goa, Rocha started his career at the youth side of Sporting Clube de Goa where he stayed till 2009 when he joined the youth side of Pune.[1] He then went on loan to Margao SC of the Goa Professional League during the 2011–12 season.[1]
After spending a season at Margao, Rocha returned to Pune F.C. in the I-League and made his professional debut for the side in the league on 29 October 2012 against East Bengal F.C. at the Salt Lake Stadium.[2] He came on in the 91st minute for Srikanth Ramu as Pune lost the match 1–0.[2]
The 1938–39 Cupa României was the sixth edition of Romania's most prestigious football cup competition.
The title was won by Rapid București against Sportul Studențesc București.
The competition is an annual knockout tournament with pairings for each round drawn at random.
There are no seeds for the draw. The draw also determines which teams will play at home. Each tie is played as a single leg.
If a match is drawn after 90 minutes, the game goes in extra time, and if the scored is still tight after 120 minutes, there a replay will be played, usually at the ground of the team who were away for the first game.
From the first edition, the teams from Divizia A entered in competition in sixteen finals, rule which remained till today.
The format is almost similar with the oldest recognised football tournament in the world FA Cup.
[1]
The Fender Twin and Twin Reverb are guitar amplifiers made by Fender Musical Instruments Corporation. The Twin was introduced in 1952, two years before Fender began selling Stratocaster electric guitars. The amps are known for their characteristically clean tone.[citation needed]
The Twin has seen a number of revisions since its introduction, both internal and external, with its designs sometimes varying greatly from one year to the next.[1] Several variations on the amp's original design have been produced through the years, including the Twin Reverb, the Super Twin, the Twin Reverb II, the Twin Reverb '65 Reissue and the Twin Reverb 68’ Custom Reissues. The Cyber Twin, which combined a tube amp with a digital processor, was introduced in January 2001.[2]
Many notable musicians have used Fender Twin amplifiers, including Mark Knopfler, David Gilmour, Chuck Berry, Buddy Holly, George Tomsco of The Fireballs, Mike Oldfield, The Beatles[3] (1968 Twin Reverb amps using the AC568 circuit),[4] Jimi Hendrix,[5] Eric Clapton,[5] Peter Green, Jeremy Spencer, Danny Kirwan, Keith Richards, Mick Taylor, Steve Jones (Sex Pistols), Jerry Garcia (Grateful Dead), Eric Johnson, Joe Bonamassa, Junior Brown and Tommy Emmanuel.
The Fender Twin has gone through a number of changes over the years, both cosmetically and electronically.[6]
The original version was an all-tube combo amplifier with dual 12" speakers and two 6L6 tubes for a rated output of 25 watts.[7]
After the preceding looks of the early 1950s (TV front from 1950 to 51/2; wide panel '52–54), Leo Fender changed the cabinet design again, this time opting for no extra wood on the front of the amp, except for the narrow top and bottom panels that hold the baffle board to the cabinet.
The early models of the larger "narrow-panel" tweeds are also remarkable for their refined electronics whose circuit design incorporated dual 5U4 rectifiers in the Twin and Bassman models, another improvement given Fender's quest for a louder, cleaner amplifier. The entire line of Fender amplifiers from 1955 to 1959 (later for smaller models and Bassman) was uniform in this look—tweed or "airline linen" covering with a maroon with gold stripe woven saran grill cloth. The 1×12 Deluxe-Amp, the 1×15 Pro-Amp and the 3×10 Bandmaster are exceptional in dynamics and tone.
Like its predecessors, the narrow panel tweed Fender amplifiers used Jensen Alnico V Concert Series Speakers, for the most part. By the end of the decade, a JBL 15" speaker was available on special order for the Pro model.
It was modified in 1957 for more volume, switching to four 5881 power tubes[8] with the more efficient long-tailed pair phase inverter for a power increase to 80W. This "hi-powered," tweed-covered design continued into early 1960, after the other Professional Series of Fender amplifiers had made the transition to the modern brownface design.
The upgraded 5F8 Twin-amp of 1957 with its complement of four military grade 5881's was briefly rectified with a tall mercury vapor 83 tube and special tube socket. Due to its volatile nature if broken, it was quickly superseded with a GZ34 rectifier but not duly noted on the tube chart until the second production.
The final 5F8-A Twin-Amp version, released in 1958 and produced into early 1960, had become the crowning achievement of Fender fifties amplification. The 5F series Twin utilized the finest heavy duty Concert Series Jensen P12-N Alnico V blue-dome loudspeakers (conservatively rated in 1957 at only 18 watts apiece). In the day, players would rarely ever open such high-fidelity amplifiers to their distortional limits. These "high-power" tweed Twin amps would deliver peaks up to 80 plus watts of power when turned high. With such bursts of volume energy, often these top-of-the-line Jensen speakers would fail, and sometimes even burn out (smoke) voice coils. Many well used Twins have replaced speakers today. Keith Richards has used these late model, high-power Twin amps on Rolling Stones tours with his own special design Celestion Alnico (similar to the G12-80) speakers to insure optimum live efficiency. Today, the famous 5F8 series Fender Twin amps, with their warmth of tone and rich rock & roll harmonic edge, command the highest price of any Fender amp ever built.
The exact plight of the Twin-Amp during the months between January and May 1960, however, remains open to considerable speculation, debate and study. The prevailing explanation is that production was temporarily interrupted during these months as they coincide with the debut of Fender's new "flagship" or top of the line amplifier, the Fender Vibrasonic-Amp. Nonetheless, Fender Musical Instrument Co. kept the image of the Twin-Amp before potential consumers during this short period. The image of the Twin-Amp in the 1960 Fender Catalog has been the subject of considerable scrutiny.
The re-emergence of the Twin-Amp in mid 1960 revealed a new aesthetic design that would become prominent among Fender's top of the line amplifiers, with the exception of the Vibrasonic-Amp. By 1961, the Bandmaster, the Bassman and the newly debuted Showman were all covered in the new look exemplified by the late 1960 Twin-Amp: blonde tolex and maroon or "oxblood" grille cloth. The Twin-Amp of this period (late 1960–1963) was manufactured with a variety of speakers including Jensen, Oxford and JBL designs. This variation lends support to the idea that the 80-watt circuit was beyond the power handling capacity of the speakers of the late 1950s. After a slight change in appearance, from the rough blonde tolex and maroon grille appearance to a smooth blonde tolex with a gold grille cloth, the Twin-Amp was replaced with the Twin Reverb-Amp in 1963.
During the blackface era of Fender amplifiers from 1963 to 1967, the amps had black faceplates, black tolex covering on the cabinet, and neutral to slightly amber tinted silver sparkle grill cloth with a small ribbed rectangular pattern. The Twin now had an onboard spring reverb tank and was renamed the Twin Reverb.  The Fender Twin Reverb is considered a standard model for players seeking a clean sound, and it is especially known for the quality of its built-in spring reverb.
Two transition prototype 1963 Twin Reverb amps have been found in both brown and blonde Tolex covering. The brown one still had the harmonic tremolo and early Vibroverb reverb circuitry with an extra tube and rear dwell control. The blonde Twin Reverb Leo gave to steel player Red Rhodes for testing purposes at the famous Palomino Club (North Hollywood). Performing in the house band with band leader Gene Davis, Red played his Pedal 1000 steel and Twin Reverb live, and on some popular TV shows including Cal's Corral (I'll eat a bug! Cal Worthington), Star Route, and Country Music Time.
Fender's 1963 product flyer featured a flat logo, black Tolex amp, while their 1963 full-line catalog showed a raised logo amp on the cover, both with a grey Saran grill. The first production Twin Reverb models used an unusual 7355 power tube (weaker cousin to the 6L6) as with their concurrent smooth blonde, blackface Fender Showman amplifier.
During this time the amplifier's output was rated at 85 watts into a 4-ohm speaker load. The circuit used is commonly known as the AB763 circuit.  Fender Twin Reverb amplifiers use four output tubes, of the 6L6GC type.[9] They use six preamp tubes, consisting of four 7025/12AX7 types[10] and two 12AT7 types. All Twin Reverbs feature a solid-state rectifier.[11]
The Fender Twin Reverb has two independent channels, labeled Normal and Vibrato. The control have black-skirted knobs numbered from 1 to 10. The Normal channel has two inputs, a "bright" switch (which compensates for loss of brightness through the volume control when the control is set lower than about "6" on its 1–10 scale), a volume control, treble, middle and bass tone controls. The Vibrato channel has a duplication of the same controls as the normal channel, plus the addition of reverb, vibrato speed and intensity controls. Reverb is accomplished with a tube/transformer driven low impedance spring reverb tank (made by the Hammond company) or its spin-off company Accutronics.[12] The addition of the reverb circuit requires an additional "gain" stage in the preamp, and as such, the Vibrato channel is capable of a bit more distortion when the volume is set high.[citation needed] Vibrato (tremolo) is accomplished with what is known as a "vibrato bug" by Fender amplifier repairmen. The vibrato bug is a four-wire device consisting of a neon tube and light-dependent variable resistor, packaged in a short section of black tubing. It resembles a water bug, with slender wispy legs. The tube generated vibrato oscillator pulsates the neon light, which varies the resistance on the resistive element. That variable resistance is applied to the audio signal on the Vibrato channel, creating a pulsating increase and decrease of that channel's volume. The speed controls varies the rate of the oscillator. The depth control limits the amount of application the variable resistor has on the audio signal.
The front panel also has a bright red pilot light lens (better known as "pilot lamp jewel" for its multiple triangular-shaped facets), covering the pilot light (made by the Chicago Miniature Lamp Co.). Other color schemes (amber, white, green, purple and blue) are also available. Rear panel controls include a 2.5-amp "slo-blo" fuse, an accessory AC outlet, an earth ground selection switch, on/off and standby switches. Additionally there are two speaker output jacks, and jacks for footswitches to activate/deactivate the reverb and vibrato effects. The black faceplates of the "blackface" era Twin Reverb will say either "Fender Electric Instruments" (FEI) or "Fender Musical Instruments", (FMI) depending on the date of manufacture. Units made before the takeover of Fender by CBS in 1965 will be marked Fender Electric Instruments, and be worth a bit more on the collectors market.
The more common speakers found in Fender Twin Reverb amps include Jensen C12Ns, Oxford 12T6s, JBL D-120Fs (an upgrade at the factory), Altec Lansing 417-8Cs, Utahs and, in later years, CTS and Eminence models. Some Twins were fitted with EVM 12L variant speakers known as EVM 12Fs. Unlike most Electrovoice speakers, they were fitted with metal dustcovers like the JBL D-120Fs.
Twin Reverb amplifiers came standard with "tilt back legs" which allowed the amplifier to be tilted at an angle backwards, so the speakers faced at a more upward angle, promoting better distribution of their output to an audience when placed on a low stage.
In 1968 the Fender amplifier line switched from the original black faceplate to a new brushed aluminum faceplate with light blue labels (except the Bronco, which has red) and changed the color of the grillcloth from silver grey to silver with sparkling blue threads embedded within it, ushering in the Silverface era. Other blackface cosmetic features were retained. The first silverface Twins used the blackface AB763 circuit until May 1968, when Fender switched to the AC568. Since the tube complement was the same, Fender just used up their stock of printed tube charts saying AB763 until they ran out.[13]
The earliest silverface Twin Reverbs, along with all other silverface models, had an aluminum frame (trim) surrounding the sparkling blue grillcloth from late 1967 to 1969. Early silverface amplifiers made between 1967 and 1968 had black lines on the brushed aluminum faceplate, still retaining the '60s "tailed" design on the amp logo, installed on the upper left side of the grillcloth. This feature was offered on models produced prior to the "tailless" period in 1973. Some later models came with an unusual silver grillcloth with sparkling orange threads ("orange sparkle"); a black grillcloth was even fitted on some production runs. During the silverface period, the Twin Reverb's chassis and AA769 circuit was shared by the Dual Showman Reverb, effectively producing the Twin Reverb in a head form, although the matching speaker cabinet for the Dual Showman Reverb sported a pair of 15-inch JBL speakers rather than 12-inch.
In 1972 a master volume was added, then in late '73 it was fitted with a push pull "boost" or acentric potentiometer in the master volume position. The rating of the amplifier's output power was upgraded to 100 watts and between 1977–1982 an ultra linear output transformer was used, increasing the power to 135 watts. A Hum Balance pot and Line Out jack for recording were added at this time.
In 1982 the Twin Reverb II was introduced to compete with Mesa Boogie's very successful products; it had an output rating of 105 watts and a return to Blackface era cosmetics albeit with a different, channel-switching cascading gain circuit with a more modern mid-range voicing and without the 'traditional' vibrato.  The Twin Reverb II was produced until 1986, and was available as a head (amplifier alone) or 2×12 combo. The circuits for this series of 1982 Fender amplifiers were designed by amp guru Paul Rivera; the 60w Concert amplifier was by far the most successful in terms of sales, but all models in this range and the next are now becoming highly sought-after by collectors and players.
The Twin Reverb II was replaced by The Twin, commonly referred to, though incorrectly as, the "Evil Twin" (Fender has only referred to the "TWIN AMP" or the '94 Twin Amp as being the "Evil Twin", not the red knob Twin) due to the addition of both a separate gain channel and a switchable overdrive on the clean, in 1987. It featured a dual output switch, allowing the user to select either 25 watts or 100 watts of output. The Twin was designed for maximum versatility for live or studio use with features like speaker jacks with selectable impedance, Low-z/XLR output, a "Power Amp Thru" feature that bypassed the preamp circuit and a buffered effects loop. Both clean and overdrive channels could be activated simultaneously and reverb could be turned on/off for each channel. Earlier Twin Reverb amps were known among musicians to be best suited for loud, "clean" tones. The "Red Knob Twin" was made until 1994; During 1994 it was slightly modified and the knobs were changed from red to black, keeping the same shape. It has since been succeeded by the first version "Twin Amps" of Fender's Protube line in 1995.
This was the first in the series to use PCB (printed circuit boards) instead of PTP (point to point) wiring. All subsequent models and reissues have used PCBs.
This version has Blackface cosmetics, was produced in USA between 1994 and 2001. On the front panel it says Twin Amp. It has two inputs, no vibrato, two channels with gain select on the floor pedal to give it two sounds per channel and an effects loop. It is 100 watts and also has a switch for a Low Power (25 Watt) mode. The amplifier features two 12 inch Eminence special design loudspeakers, 3 speaker output sockets (Series, Main and Parallel) and an output impedance switch for 4, 8, 16 ohms (Main is 16 ohms).
This model is referred to as the "Evil Twin".[14] In 2002 it was replaced by a new Pro Tube "Twin Amp" including tremolo.
This version is very similar in cosmetics with the previous one but it introduces, for the first time, a full tube tremolo in a modern twin amp.
The front panel contains (left to right): a single input, clean channel controls (volume, bright switch, treble, middle, bass), distorted channel controls (gain, treble, middle, bass, volume, channel select), and shared controls (reverb, tremolo speed and intensity, presence).
The rear panel contains power and stand by switches, output power switch (100W or 25W), effect send level, effect loop switch, return level, preamp out, power amp in, footswitch jack, tube bias adjustment and balancing, external speaker jack, main speaker jack.
The footswitch has four buttons that allow to select the channel, bypass or engage the effect loop, switch the tremolo on/off, switch the reverb on/off.
The tremolo is an optocoupler signal vary tube bias tremolo that tremolo works by changing the bias to a 12AX7 pre-amp tube. By changing the operating parameters of the tube, the signal can be cut off momentarily and the brought back up. This creates the rich, pulsating tremolo effect. Curiously, it can be switched on through the footswitch only.
The amplifier features two 12 inch Eminence special design loudspeakers in parallel (8ohms each, 4 ohms total load). There is no output impedance switch and the total impedance of the main plus external speaker has to be 4 ohms.[15]
In 1992 Fender introduced the '65 Reissue,[16] with blackface cosmetics and circuitry, an output rating of 85W RMS and 8Ω Jensen C-12K speakers.  The '65 Reissue is constructed with a printed circuit board and new 1/4" phone jacks for the footswitch pedal replacing the older RCA design of the vintage originals. Fender's original intention was to issue only 300 of this model, but it was continued due to its success in the market. The '65 Reissue is also available with a single 15-inch speaker, called the '65 Twin Custom 15.[17]
In 2013, Fender introduced a redress of the '65 reissue dubbed the '68 Custom Twin Reverb. It came with silverface cosmetics, reverb and vibrato on both channels, altered negative feedback circuitry, Celestion Type V speakers and a "Custom" channel (channel 1) which utilizes a modified tone stack derived from the Fender Bassman. The "vintage" channel (channel 2) is meant to be the typical Twin sound. The output remains at 85W, unlike the original Twin Reverb of 1968.[18]
In 2012, Fender released a series of three tweed-style amplifiers as an artist signature line, endorsed by Eric Clapton. One of these amps is the Twinolux, a modified version of the 5E8 Tweed Twin that removed one channel, and added a tremolo effect, with an overall 40W output.[19] Listed at $3,000, it was praised by Vintage Guitar for its "exceptional" tones, both clean and driven.[20]
Fender released the Fender Tone Master Twin Reverb in September 2019.  The amp aims to digitally recreate the 85 watt output of the original Twin tube amp and weighs a mere 35 lbs.[21]
The Cotswold Hills League is a cricket league made up of clubs from Warwickshire, Worcestershire and Gloucestershire. 
The spine of the geographic area covered by the League is a picturesque part of England known as The Cotswolds.
The League was founded in 1981 when it consisted of 10 teams whose First XIs played in a single division with a completely separate division for their Second XIs.
The League had grown to 8 divisions of 10 teams drawn from 49 different clubs, But over recent years its suffered the loss of some clubs going into the Warwickshire League. In 2023 its has 6 Divisions (4 Divisions of 10, 2 Divisions of 12) drawn from 35 different clubs.
In each division, every team plays each other on a home and away basis competing for promotion or to avoid relegation at the end of the season. Matches are played on Saturdays over 18 weeks, usually commencing with the first Saturday in May. These matches, based on a limited overs one-day format, consist of 90 overs, with the side batting first allowed a maximum of 45 overs. There are restrictions on the maximum number of overs any one bowler can bowl. Points are awarded for a win, plus bonus points for batting and bowling performances.
There is also a Junior Section organised in to 5 different age groups, Under 9, Under 11, Under 13, Under 15 and Under 17. 
The Junior section is open to clubs who do not compete in the senior section, This has been run successfully for a number of years.
1981: Moreton-in-Marsh
1982: Wellesbourne
1983: Dumbleton
1984: Winchcombe
1985: Broadway
1986: Broadway
1987: Winchcombe
1988: Shipston-on-Stour
1989: Bredon
1990: Bredon
1991: Bredon
1992: Bidford-on-Avon
1993: Wellesbourne
1994: Broadway
1995: Shipston-on-Stour
1996: Shipston-on-Stour
1997: Shipston-on-Stour
1998: Shipston-on-Stour
1999: Shipston-on-Stour
2000: Exhall & Wixford
2001: Bidford-on-Avon
2002: Shipston-on-Stour
2003: Stratford Bards
2004: Overbury
2005: Exhall & Wixford
2006: Bretforton
2007: Bretforton
2008: Exhall & Wixford
2009: Bretforton
2010: Bretforton
2011: Wellesbourne
2012: Bretforton
2013: Earlswood
2014: Shipston-on-Stour
2015: Exhall & Wixford
2016: Wellesbourne
2017: Wellesbourne
2018: Wellesbourne
2019: Exhall & Wixford
2020: Bretforton (Covid Shortened the season and it was group stage followed by Final)
2021: Wellesbourne
2022: Wellesbourne
Alvechurch (Worcestershire League), Earlswood (Warwickshire League) have more Senior sides in that structure.

This article related to an English domestic cricket competition is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Xôi (Vietnamese pronunciation: [ʃoj˧˧]) is a savory (mặn) or sweet (ngọt) Vietnamese dish made from glutinous rice and other ingredients. Xôi is a common on-the-go breakfast item, and a popular snack nationwide. Although it is often served as a breakfast or dessert, people also eat it at lunch or dinner as a main dish in many areas in Vietnam.
Savory xôi are called xôi mặn in Vietnamese. They include the following varieties:
Sweet xôi are called xôi ngọt in Vietnamese. They include the following varieties:

 Food portal
Pallacanestro Cantù, known for sponsorship reasons as Acqua S.Bernardo Cantù, is an Italian professional basketball club that is based in Cantù, Lombardy. On the European-wide club competition scene, Cantù is second to Real Madrid – against whom they have an 8–2 record – for European trophies won, with twelve titles (two EuroLeague, four FIBA Saporta Cups, four FIBA Korać Cups and also two FIBA Intercontinental Cups.),[1] in addition to three domestic Italian Leagues and two Italian Supercups.
The club was founded as Associazione Pallacanestro Cantù in 1936 with impetus from Mario Broggi and Angiolino Polli. At a time when basketball was an unknown sport in Italy, a group composed of Broggi, Polli, Attilio Molteni, Peppino Borghi, Alberto Broggi, Vittorio Sgariboldi, Nene Marchi and Peppino Colombo started to play in the courtyard of the Sacramentine Sisters Institute. A name change in 1940 saw the club become Opera Nazionale Dopolavoro Cantù, winning their first major trophy in 1942 with the Bruno Mussolini Trophy after a squad coached by Luigi Cicoria won against Pallacanestro Varese and General Cantore Milano. The club re-emerged after World War II as Pallacanestro Cantù, playing in the third division Serie C in 1949. It then reached the second division Serie B in 1953 and the first division Serie A in 1954, though they downgraded after one season. The Broggi brothers retired during this period, replaced on the court by Lino Cappelletti (the first Cantù player to make the Italian national team) Lietti, Ronchetti and Quarta, whilst the squad was sponsored by the Milenka distillery.[2][3]
Returning to the Serie A in 1956, the club was sponsored by Ettore Casella through his Oransoda brand, and two years later he became the club's owner, nominating Aldo Allievi as president.[4] The arrival of Tony Vlastelica allowed Cantù, now playing in a covered Parini arena, to finish fourth in 1957–58 and start challenging Minganti Bologna and Simmenthal Milano. Over the summer, Casella transferred his Oransoda sponsorship to Virtus Bologna whilst using another of his brands, Fonte Levissima, for Cantù,[4] whilst Gianni Corsolini was named coach. After Cappelletti retired, he was replaced in 1962 by a young player from Milano, Carlo Recalcati. Recalcati, along with the "wall of Cantù" – composed of Bob Burgess (arrived from Real Madrid), Alberto De Simone and Alberto Merlati – Antonio Frigerio and Carlos D'Aquila formed the team  – coached by Borislav Stanković – that would win the club's first ever Serie A title in 1967–68.[2][3]
The 1969 off-season saw Erminio Casella (who had replaced his father as owner after his death in 1967) leave the club, with Allievi stepping in to take his place. Arnaldo Taurisano was named coach and Pierluigi Marzorati joined, and stayed fifteen years with the club. Though Ignis and Simmenthal had a hold on the Italian league during that period, a Birra Forst-sponsored squad composed of Marzorati, Recalcati, Antonio Farina, Ciccio Della Fiori and Renzo Tombolato captured three successive FIBA Korać Cups in 1973, 1974 and 1975, beating respectively Maes Pils, Partizan from Belgrade and FC Barcelona. The 1974–75 season ended with the club earning their second scudetto with players such as Marzorati, Della Fiori, Recalcati, Farina, Tombolato, Bob Lienhard, Franco Meneghel and Mario Beretta, who later in that same year would add the FIBA Intercontinental Cup, beating Real Madrid and the final runners-up Amazonas Franca on the way. Harthorne Wingo joined the squad in 1976 and led the club to another European title, the 1977 Cup Winners' Cup claimed against Radnički Belgrade, a title repeated the next year over Sinudyne Bologna, whilst John Neumann helped them achieve the three-peat in 1979 by beating EBBC.[2][3]
The form from these seasons would continue into the 1980s, thanks to a squad coached by Valerio Bianchini with Americans Tom Boswell and Bruce Flowers, future Serie A all-time top scorer Antonello Riva, Renzo Bariviera, Denis Innocentin, Giorgio Cattini, Fausto Bargna and Marzorati. The latter, along with Riva, were decisive in the Italian's fourth Cup Winners' Cup in 1981 with an 86–81 win over FC Barcelona, also helping them win their third scudetto that same year. They earned a place in the 1981–82 Champions Cup, despite a rocky start as Bianchini did not travel with the squad early in the season, whilst Marzorati and Bariviera were injured. They lost 85–87 away to Maccabi Tel Aviv after a basket by new signing C. J. Kupec was disallowed. They travelled to Belgrade needing to win, or lose by 15 or fewer points against Partizan to reach the final, which they managed as they lost 89–104 after Dražen Dalipagić scored 55 points. Again pitted against Maccabi Tel Aviv in the final, Squibb Cantù brought 1,200 fans to Cologne on 25 May 1982, winning 86–80 thanks to 23 points from Kupec, 21 from Flowers, and 18 apiece for Marzorati and Riva. Though they conceded their league title to Bologna from Sinudyne in the play-off quarterfinals, they defended their European title in the 1982–83 edition as title holders, where they faced a decisive game, overcoming CSKA Moscow 106–73 to reach the final against rivals Billy Milano. The game in Grenoble was close, with Jim Brewer blocking John Gianelli's second-to-last shot to see the team emerge 69–68 winners as fans swamped the court while Marzorati held the cup, the team's other American, Wallace Bryant, had 18 points as did Riva, with Brewer adding 14.
The rest of the 1980s saw the club stay competitive but failing to add any titles despite counting American players like Dan Gay, Richard Anderson, Lorenzo Charles, Jeff Turner and Kent Benson, stalling in the league playoffs and losing the 1989 Korać Cup to Vlade Divac's Partizan.[2][3]
Riva had left for Milano in 1988 but Pace Mannion joined the club and was decisive in the conquest of the 1991 Korać Cup, scoring eight consecutive three-pointers to down Real Madrid, with Marzorati ending his career with another title. At the second season of Fabrizio Frates as head coach of the team, Clear Cantù made another season in the 1991–92 FIBA Korać Cup after having reached the semi-finals of the competition, where they lost to Scavolini Pesaro for one point difference (a 76–74 home win and a 86–89 defeat in Pesaro). The 1992–93 season established the good performances in Europe (1992–93 FIBA Korać Cup). Clear Cantù ended the season in the semi-final losing to another Italian club after being surrounded by "Saša" Đorđević's Philips Milano (who subsequently won the trophy). In Serie A, although the team ranked fifth in the regular season, they ruled the play-off quarterfinals thanks to Stefanel Trieste with 2–0 wins. In the semi-finals the barrier of knorr Bologna proved impossible to overcome. However, the team qualified to compete in the next season's FIBA European League and to return in the top European basketball club's competition after an absence of nine years. The 1993–94 season saw the club playing in FIBA European League against European clubs like Efes Pilsen, Panathinaikos, 7up Joventut, Buckler Beer Bologna, Cibona or Pau-Orthez (ranked 8th and last in the group B with 2–12 record) and changing coaches and foreign players but this could not prevent the team from downgrading to the second division, ending a forty-year tenure in the first division, the Allievi family conceded the ownership to Franco Polti in its wake.
The team returned to the first division after two seasons, with coach Dado Lombardi and Thurl Bailey helping Polti Cantù reach the Italian Cup final and an eighth place in the league on its return season. Francesco Corrado bought the club in 1999. During the course of the season, player Enrico Ravaglia died in a car crash, and the team – with a returning Riva – regrouped on the court. The 2000–01 season started badly, which led to the incumbent coach being replaced by long-time youth coach Stefano Sacripanti who guided the club to win. He would do better the next season, leading an American-centric group of Jerry McCullough, Bootsy Thornton, Sam Hines, Shaun Stonerook, Todd Lindeman and Ryan Hoover to a fourth place in the league, enough to qualify for the EuroLeague (though Corrado decided to renounce participating for financial reasons).[2][3]
The 2002–03 season saw the club reach the Italian Cup final, though it would concede the title to Benetton Treviso. They would avenge their loss by beating Treviso in their own arena in the 2003 Italian Supercup. Reaching the league playoffs on a number of occasions, Cantù also returned to Europe, participating in the 2004–05 ULEB Cup and the 2005–06 FIBA EuroCup. The club celebrated its 70th anniversary during the 2006–2007 season; as part of the commemoration, a 54 year old Marzorati played during an October 2006 game, beating records as the oldest ever professional basketball player and the only player to have played for the same club in five different decades.[5] When Corrado left the club to become president of Lega Basket, his son Alessandro became the eighth president in team history, another change saw Sacripanti leave for Scavolini Pesaro and be replaced by Luca Dalmonte. During the summer 2008, Cantù was brought by the NGC group led by Eugenio Cremascoli along with his children Paolo and Anna, though Corrado remained president.
Dalmonte left in 2009 and was replaced by young coach Andrea Trinchieri, who took the club to the Italian Cup Final Eight and the fourth place in the league, before reaching the playoff semi-finals where they lost to holders Montepaschi Siena, earning a place in the next year's EuroCup.
The next season, Trinchieri led a squad with long-time players such as captain Nicolas Mazzarino, Manuchar Markoishvili, Maarty Leunen and Vladimir Micov to first the Italian Cup final and then the league final, where they would lose to frequent champions Siena. Meanwhile, Anna Cremascoli became the club's president in September 2011, the first woman ever to hold the position at a Serie A club (she would be joined by other part-owners in 2014, including the team's fans with a 10% share, though she remained president and majority owner). Having earned a place in the 2011–12 Euroleague, the Italians reached the Top 16 thanks to a buzzer beater from Gianluca Basile against Gescrap Bizkaia Bilbao. Placed in a tough Group H with Maccabi Tel Aviv and FC Barcelona Regal, they tied Tel Aviv for second but exited on points scored, losing the penultimate game to Barcelona by a single point as Basile could not repeat his earlier exploit.[1] Meanwhile, they played in the Supercup and Italian Cup finals but lost both to Montepaschi Siena, whilst in the league they were defeated in the quarter-finals by Scavolini Pesaro.[3]
The 2012 summer saw main sponsor Bennet leave, to be replaced by Mapooro, a brand from the NGC group, whilst the squad saw wholesale changes with Basile leaving and eight new players coming in. Mapooro Cantù beat Siena to win the Supercup, then triumphed in the qualifying rounds (organised at "home" in the PalaDesio) to reach the EuroLeague regular season.[1] Though they beat Real Madrid and Fenerbahçe Ülker they exited at the group stage after losing to the Turks in Istanbul, where Manuchar Markoishvili went mid-season by transferring to Galatasaray. The now Lenovo-sponsored team came back from a shaky start to crack the league playoffs, where – thanks to the arrival of Joe Ragland – they reached the semi-finals, losing the seven-game series against Acea Roma in the last game. Trinchieri left the club over the summer and was replaced by Sacripanti, whilst Daniele Della Fiori replaced Bruno Arrigoni as general manager and Acqua Vitasnella became main sponsor. A solid season saw the side reach the Italian Cup Final 8, the EuroCup Last 32 and the league playoffs, remaining unbeaten at home during all of the latter's regular season, though they lost their quarter-finals series against Roma. Known as FoxTown Cantù in Europe, the team went to the EuroCup Round of 16 before exiting at the hands of UNICS.
Domestically, they reached the playoffs again, with help from NBA All-Star Metta World Peace who joined the club in March, but were undone in the last game of the quarter-final series against Reyer Venezia. In November 2015, the club was bought by Ukrainian-Russian billionaire Dmitry Gerasimenko: in the first weeks of its ownership he announced he planned to build a new arena, brought in coach Sergey Bazarevich and four new players.[3]
In August 2016, the club brought in coach Rimas Kurtinaitis from Khimki.[6]
Cantù started playing in the uncovered courtyard of the Sacramentine Sisters Institute before moving to another outside court on Piazza Parini. A covered arena, the PalaParini, was built in 1956 (when the Italian Basketball Federation disallowed the use of outside courts). They played there until moving to the newly built Palasport Pianella for the 1974–75 season.[3]
When they qualified for the EuroLeague in 2011, they had to move to the PalaDesio for their games, 15 km away from Cantù in Desio, as the Pianella did not meet EuroLeague standards.[1] The PalaDesio itself underwent a €130,000 refurbishment over the summer, with changes to the court, electrical installations and outside area that made it in line with the aforementioned standards.[7] They also played their European games in Desio the next season, in addition to a number of domestic games over the next seasons (one game during 2010–11, four more the next season,[8] then two local derbies against Vanoli Cremona and Milano in 2014–15).[9]
The arena situation has driven a wedge between the club management and the local authorities as a promised new venue to replace the obsolete Pianella (which costs around €400,000 in upkeep, ten times more than most Serie A arenas) has not yet been built, whilst renting the PalaDesio full-time would prove too costly.[10]
On July 6, 2016, there was the official presentation of the project for the new arena in Cucciago, Cantù. The project consists of a renovation and an extension of the Palasport Pianella, with the increase of capacity from 3,910 to 5,634. Inside the building, there will be a new museum dedicated to the club, a cafe/restaurant, a gym, a children fun area, a new team's training court and the offices of the club. It will be the fourth largest basketball arena in Lega Basket Serie A. Construction will last between 11 and 13 months.[11]
Note: Flags indicate national team eligibility at FIBA-sanctioned events. Players may hold other non-FIBA nationality not displayed.
Total titles: 18
Note: Flags indicate national team eligibility at FIBA-sanctioned events. Players may hold other non-FIBA nationality not displayed.
To appear in this section a player must have either:
2010's
2000's
1990's
1980's
1970's
1960's
1950's

Throughout the years, due to sponsorship deals, the club has also been known as:
Of Walking in Ice (German: Vom Gehen im Eis) is the diary of the German film director Werner Herzog, published in 1978 and reissued by University of Minnesota Press in 2015.[1] It was written in German and translated into English.
The diary was written and takes place between November 23 and December 14, 1974. In the foreword, Herzog says that he received a call from a friend in Paris, informing him that his close friend, the German film historian Lotte H. Eisner, was ill and dying. Herzog was determined to prevent this, and believed that an act of walking would keep Eisner from death.[2] He took a jacket, a compass and a duffel bag of the barest essentials and, wearing a pair of new boots, set off on a three-week pilgrimage from Munich to Paris through the deep chill and snowstorms of winter.[2]
Bolner's Fiesta Products is a spice company based out of San Antonio, Texas.
The company was founded in 1955 by Clifton Bolner, focusing primarily on Tex-Mex and Mexican spices.[1]  The spices are a well known staple across Texas kitchens.[2][3]
In 2014, the brand was named a Texas treasure, recognized as a "historic Texas business".[4]

This United States corporation or company article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bicycle jousting is jousting while mounted on a bicycle rather than a horse.
The Black Label Bike Club organise joust in New York at locations such as Manhattan Bridge.  The events are quite boisterous as tall bicycles are used and so the jousters may fall heavily if they are knocked off.  The lances used in these events are made from pvc piping.[1]
Bicycle jousting events are held each summer in Amsterdam in the Vondelpark.[2]
Curtin Singapore, officially the Curtin Education Centre,[5] is the Singaporean campus of Curtin University, a public university in Australia.[6] Curtin Singapore offers undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral degree programs in allied health, information technology, commerce and communications with plans to expand to science and engineering.[7] It is named after John Curtin, Prime Minister of Australia from 1941 to 1945, and is the largest university in the state of Western Australia with 58,607 students globally in 2022.[8][9]
Students have options to transfer or study abroad to other Curtin campuses in Perth, Kalgoorlie, Malaysia, Dubai and Mauritius as the same units are studied across its campuses.[10][11] In additional, students from other universities and Curtin campuses can also apply to study abroad at Curtin Singapore.[12] In 2022, the university shifted from its original campus in Whampoa to The Alpha building in Singapore's Science Park II in Queenstown, near NUS and the National University Hospital.[13]
Curtin Singapore is operated directly under Curtin University, which is generally not the case for most private education providers in Singapore.[14][15] This means that degrees conferred by Curtin University to Curtin Singapore students are equivalent to Curtin proper.[16] While Curtin Singapore graduates generally have higher employment rates than other private universities in Singapore,[17] it is still lower than public institutions such as the National University of Singapore and Nanyang Technological University.[18] The university follows a trimester model, allowing students to complete a bachelors program in 2 years.[19]

In Australia, the university is known for having high employer satisfaction rates.[20][21][22] According to the 2022 Employer Satisfaction Survey published by the Australian Government's QILT, the university received the highest overall employer satisfaction (89.7%) among all universities in Australia.[23] The university also ranks within the top 200 universities according to the Quacquarelli Symonds and U.S. News university ranking publications,[24][25] while ranking somewhat lower on others.[26][27][28]Curtin University is the modern descendent of the Perth Technical School, established in 1900, which later became the Western Australia Institute of Technology in 1966.[29] The institution received university status in 1986 to form the Curtin University of Technology, named after paramount World War II Prime Minister of Australia John Curtin.[30] In 2010, it removed the suffix from its name and became simply Curtin University.[31] It is currently the largest university in the state of Western Australia with 58,607 students enrolled across its domestic and overseas campuses.[32]
Curtin University has been actively present in Singapore since 1986 through the establishment of links with private educational providers in Singapore, including the Singapore Human Resource Institute, Marketing Institute of Singapore and the Singapore Institute of Materials Management. Prior to the establishment of its full-fledged independent campus in Singapore, degrees from Curtin were originally awarded through these partners.[33]
The opening of Curtin Singapore's 5,600-square-metre (60,000 sq ft) campus at Jalan Rajah in Whampoa allowed the university to be able to provide courses on its own merit. All Curtin University courses since its founding has been delivered directly by the university and units are the same across campuses. Students at the Singapore campus are awarded the same degree and transcripts as their peers at other Curtin campuses. The overall cost to establish the university in 2008 was S$40 million.[33]
Curtin Singapore's operations began in December 2008 with an initial enrolment of 900 students, including new and continuing students who were enrolled in Curtin's previous partners. Curtin Singapore had 2,081 students in 2022, an increase of 23% from the previous year.[34][35][36]
Curtin University is a Western Australian university and public perception of the university will differ across the different countries where it has campuses. Curtin Singapore is directly operated by Curtin University in Australia,[37] unlike most other foreign universities operating in Singapore,[38] and units are the same as the ones offered in all of Curtin's other campuses.[39]
According to an independent survey by Australian Government's QILT in 2022, employers in Australia were more satisfied with Curtin graduates than any other Australian university.[40] Graduates of private universities are perceived more negatively than public university graduates in Singapore and on average earn 15% less than autonomous universities following graduation.[41][42] This is possibly due to a competitive high school culture in Singapore where students are separated based on perceived intelligence and higher-ranking university graduates are considered to have more merit.[43][44][45]
On university ranking publications, Curtin University usually ranks higher than most universities globally and is in the top 1% of universities ranked,[46] but ranks significantly lower than domestic institutions including the National University of Singapore and Nanyang Technological University.[47][48] Both of those domestic universities regularly rank within the top 50 and 100 on the same publications. The following are the latest rankings on popular publications as of January 2024:
Curtin University does rank higher on number of specific subjects which may become more relevant as the campus plans to expand to engineering and the sciences.[49] These subjects, on varying university ranking publications, include:
The university also ranks within the top 100 for physical chemistry, public health, energy and fuels, engineering,[58] architecture, business administration, hospitality and tourism management, psychology,[59] nursing, sports science, architecture, pharmacy and pharmacology.[60] University rankings methodologies have, however, been subject to criticism and may not be an accurate measure for the quality of undergraduate and postgraduate study programs outside of research.[61][62] Public universities in Singapore also have a larger student population, more resources and bigger campuses than private universities.[63]
Curtin Singapore's first campus was located at 90 and 92 Jalan Rajah in Whampoa and was officially opened on 13 November 2008 by S. Iswaran, Singapore's Senior Minister of State at the Ministry of Trade and Industry, and Doug Chester, the Australian High Commissioner to Singapore.[33] Some facilities at the previous location included a student lounge, library, computer labs, canteen, dining areas, basketball court and gym.
In 2022, Curtin Singapore moved onto levels 2 through to 4 of the Alpha building in Singapore Science Park 2.[64] Co-located with industry within the science park precinct, Curtin Singapore is a 15-minute walk from Haw Par Villa MRT station and is closer to NUS, the National University Hospital and the Greater Southern Waterfront.[65] Along with the new campus, the campus announced plans for future expansion to provide courses in the sciences, engineering, business administration and majors in computing.[66][67]
Facilities at the new Curtin Singapore campus at the Alpha are spread over 3 levels of the building. Level 2 includes a library, clinical labs and gym. The library offers Group Discussion Pods, Individual Pods, printing services, Macintosh computers, charging ports and study desks. The clinical lab has equipment and tools to simulate hospital and clinical environments. Level 3 includes a student lounge and computer labs. The student lounge has a pantry for students, vending machines, microwaves, pool tables, charging ports and conference seminar rooms. Level 4 has various group discussion tables and computers for students to access their student portal.[citation needed] Additional facilities as part of the wider science park include an outdoor gym, barbecue pits and a swimming pool.[68]
The courses offered by the Singapore campus follows the identical structure and curriculum content as those offered at the main Bentley campus in Perth. During their course of studies, students have the discretion to study abroad or transfer to other Curtin campuses in Perth, Kalgoorlie, Malaysia, Dubai and Mauritius to gain further international exposure and widen their perspectives.[69] Curtin Singapore also offers a range of Curtin College pathway programs alongside its Curtin University undergraduate and postgraduate programs.[70] Courses at Curtin Singapore are currently provided by the following Curtin schools:
The Curtin Singapore Student Committee (STUCO) is the main student body managing social events and clubs on the campus.[71]
Curtin programs have academic entry requirements that vary based on the level and field of studies.[72] In addition, Curtin Singapore offers Curtin College pathway diploma programs that offer entry into various undergraduate programs with or without advanced standing.[73]
For undergraduate courses, Curtin's academic entry requirement is a high school certificate at level 12 or equivalent or a diploma from a polytechnic or other recognised institution.[74] Students are also required to have attained Curtin's English language pre-requisite.[75] Students not meeting the entry requirements for undergraduate programs can apply for pathway diploma programs.[76][77]
For postgraduate courses, Curtin academic entry requirement is an undergraduate or bachelor's degree acceptable by Curtin's standards. Students are also required to have attained Curtin's English language pre-requisite along with other criteria depending on the field of study.[78] Doctoral program applicants are also required to have a Bachelor Honours or other post-graduate qualification.[79]
Notable alumni of Curtin University's Singapore campus include:
The Pro Vice-Chancellor and President of Curtin Singapore is currently Professor Linley Lord.[80]
Heybatollah (Persian: هيبت اله, also Romanized as Heybatollāh)[1] is a village in Gavrud Rural District, in the Central District of Sonqor County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 231, in 47 families.[2]
This Sonqor County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Académie des sciences, des arts, des cultures d'Afrique et des diasporas africaines (ASCAD), created on 1 September 2003 in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire,[1] is an African cultural institution whose objective is to contribute to the development and influence of science, arts, African culture and that of the African diaspora. It is also aimed at economic growth and social progress. Its members include scientists, philosophers, writers, artists and inventors.[2]
The ASCAD has assumed the membership of the Fédération des Associations Scientfiiques de Côte d'Ivoire, a predecessor body Associate of International Council for Science (ICSU) since 1992.[3]
The ASCAD is divided into several fields, each with a secretary: exact sciences, natural science, social science, legal science and art. It is, administratively, attached to the Ivorian Presidency.
Since 2011, ASCAD has been running a contest each year, with the winner receiving the "ASCAD Award of Excellence for Research" with a cash prize.
In 2013, the first edition of the ASCAD Research Scholarships was launched. These scholarships are intended for those of scientific, cultural or artistic activities on national strategic interest.

This article about an organization in Africa is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Brezje pri Ločah (pronounced [ˈbreːzjɛ pɾi ˈloːtʃax]) is a settlement in the Municipality of Slovenske Konjice in eastern Slovenia. It lies on the edge of the Dravinja Valley east of Slovenske Konjice and north of Loče. The area is part of the traditional Styria region. The municipality is included in the Savinja Statistical Region.[2]
The name of the settlement was changed from Brezje to Brezje pri Ločah in 1953.[3]
This article about the Municipality of Slovenske Konjice in Slovenia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Acinia jungsukae is a species of tephritid or fruit flies in the genus Acinia of the family Tephritidae.[2]
Korea.
This article related to members of the fly sub-family Tephritinae is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Birk (biærk, berck, byrck) was during the Scandinavian Middle Ages the name for a demarcated area, especially a town or a market place, with its own laws and privileges.[1]
In Denmark, the name was used for areas were exempted from the ordinary jurisdictions of the hundreds and the towns. There were royal, ecclesiastical and aristocratic birks with their own law courts and birk assemblies.[1] After the Protestant Reformation, the ecclesiastical birks passed to the king.[citation needed]
The royal birks were after some time abolished, but more and more aristocratic ones were established, where the aristocratic landlord (the patronus) appointed birk judges, birk bailiffs, and birk notaries. The aristocratic birk privilege (known by the same name as Bjarkey laws, birkerett) was reduced in 1809 and it was completely abolished in 1849. The term birk was to endure for some time, however.
In Norway, some counties, baronies and noble estates also had birk privileges, but they were abolished in 1821.[1]
Some scholars[who?] have proposed that the place name Birka would have origins in birk, but this theory has not been generally accepted.
Abel Gebor (born August 27, 1990) is a Liberian footballer who currently plays for Bhayangkara Surabaya United.
Gebor had a short spell in college soccer, spending time with Tyler Junior College and Lon Morris College.  In 2010, Gebor played three games for Fort Lauderdale Schulz Academy in the USL Premier Development League.[1]
On March 13, 2012, Gebor signed with NASL club Fort Lauderdale Strikers.[2]  He made his debut on April 25 in a 3–2 win against the Puerto Rico Islanders. Gebor played in the Finnish top flight with Honka in 2014 before moving to Tërbuni Pukë in Albania during the 2015 transfer period.
Abel Gebor got called to play for his motherland Liberia during the country away fixture against Togo on June 14, 2015 in Lome, the capital of Togo. The hard working defensive midfielder earned the trust of Lone Star coach James Debbah during the national team two international test matches in Ghana ahead of the Togo clash. He played 20 minutes of the 2–1 away defeat for the Liberian national team against Togo in the 2017 African Cup of Nations qualification game, but he was very impressive and former FIFA 1995 World Best footballer George Weah praised the defensive midfielder speeding ability.
Lone Star coach James Debbah recently called Abel Gebor to help qualified the home base Lone Star team over Guinea in the CHAN qualification game, but they settled 1–1 in Monrovia on July 5, 2015, The local Lone Star needed 2–0 home win but the game ended 1–1. but Abel was one of the best player on the best on Sunday. Gebor came on during the 81st minute against Guinea Bissau on October 13, 2015 when Liberia won 1–3 through William Jebro hat-trick. Liberia advanced to the round two of the Russia 2018 qualification stage.

This biographical article related to Liberian association football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Tyrrell 023 was a Formula One car designed by Harvey Postlethwaite and Mike Gascoyne for use by the Tyrrell team in the 1995 Formula One World Championship. The car was driven by Japanese Ukyo Katayama, in his third season with the team, and Finn Mika Salo, in his first full season of F1 after driving for Lotus in the final two races of 1994. The team's test driver, Italian Gabriele Tarquini, deputised for an injured Katayama at the European Grand Prix. The best finish achieved by the 023 was fifth, by Salo at the Italian and Australian Grands Prix.
Designed by Harvey Postlethwaite and Mike Gascoyne,[1] the 023 featured a new hydraulic-controlled front suspension system, known as "Hydrolink", which Tyrrell had been testing since February 1995.[3] It used a 3-litre version of the Yamaha V10, which had been raced the previous year.[1]
The team retained all its 1994 backers including Mild Seven, BP, Fondmetal, Calbee, Club Angle and Zent. This was partly helped by the fact that new team driver Mika Salo brought $3 million with him to the team which resulted in their new sponsor Nokia.[4] Ukyo Katayama, who had driven for the team since 1993, remained on the roster.
After an impressive 1994 showing with the simple but effective 022, 1995 was a huge disappointment for the team.  The 023 chassis proved to be very mediocre and the team's innovative "Hydrolink" suspension was rendered ineffective due to its deficiencies. The Hydrolink suspension was eventually removed from the 023 at mid-season.[3]
Salo was impressive in his first full season of F1, scoring all of the team's total of five points.  He could have done even better, holding third place at the season-opening Brazilian GP before spinning back to seventh due to cramp.  He was also set for points at the next race, but was taken out by backmarker Aguri Suzuki.  As such, the Finn had to wait until the second half of the season to score his first points.
Katayama, on the other hand, proved to be very disappointing after a promising effort in 1994.  He was disadvantaged by the new higher cockpit sides as a short driver, but was still outclassed by his inexperienced team-mate. Test driver Gabriele Tarquini stood in for Katayama at the Nürburgring after the Japanese was injured in an acrobatic startline crash at Estoril. After his retirement in 1997, the Japanese revealed that he had suffered a cancer on his back, which, although not harmful, had an adverse effect on his competitiveness.[5]
Tyrrell eventually finished ninth in the Constructors' Championship, with five points, all scored by Salo, behind Footwork due to Gianni Morbidelli's third-place finish at Adelaide.
(key)
Christian T. Wentz is an American electrical engineer and entrepreneur. He is recognized for his work in engineering  authenticity in electronic devices and the use of these primitives in distributed systems, developing neural interface[1][2] technologies and innovation in optoelectronics,[3] low power circuit design,[4] wireless power[3][5][6][7] and high bandwidth communication technologies.[8]
Wentz grew up in Wausau, Wisconsin. He graduated from Wausau East High School in 2004.
Wentz received a bachelor of science degree in electrical science and engineering in 2009 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He received his master of engineering degree in electrical engineering and computer science in 2010 from MIT. He returned to MIT in 2013 to pursue a PhD with the support of the Myhrvold & Havranek Hertz Foundation Fellowship in applied sciences.[9][2] His PhD work focused on development of minimally invasive biosensors.[10]
As of 2017, Wentz is on leave from MIT to pursue entrepreneurial ventures.
As an undergraduate student at MIT in the lab of Edward Boyden,[5] Wentz developed wireless neural interface technology using optogenetics,[3] and worked on ultra-low power circuit technology for large-scale acquisition of neural signals.[11][5]
In 2011, based on this work, Wentz founded Kendall Research Systems, LLC (KRS).[10][5][12][13] KRS became the first company to commercialize wireless optogenetics instrumentation for use in the pharmaceutical industry and translational neuroscience.[3][12] The company bootstrapped itself until it received support from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). KRS explored ultra-low power signal processing topologies to capture signals from large numbers of neurons in devices implanted in humans, e.g. deep brain stimulators.[12]
In 2010, while still a student at MIT, he co-founded Cerenova, Inc, a spinout from Massachusetts General Hospital Department of Neurosurgery, with noted functional neurosurgeon Emad Eskandar. Their work focused on novel applications of electrical neuromodulation for recovery and improvement of learning and cognition.[14]
In February 2017, KRS’ neurotechnology assets were acquired by Kernel for an undisclosed sum.[8][12] Following the acquisition, Wentz served as Vice President of Product at Kernel, leading development program in clinical neural interfaces.[12][15]
In August 2018, Wentz announced the establishment and funding of Gradient Technologies, Inc., a venture focused on engineering trust into everyday electronic devices such that  "the authenticity and integrity of every electronic device, the software it operates, data it stores and computes, and information itself, are provable qualities by construction, not by trust in a third party".[16]
Previously, Wentz worked on hardware for wearable technology company Misfit, Inc. Misfit was acquired by Fossil Group in November 2015 for $260 million.[17]
In 2011, Wentz was named to the inaugural Forbes 30 Under 30 in Science and Innovation for his work in neurotechnology.[14]
In 2012, Wentz received the Myhrvold & Havranak Family Hertz Foundation Fellowship in applied sciences to pursue a PhD at MIT.[17]
The Little River (or Nalong[1]) is a perennial river of the Mitchell River catchment, located in the East Gippsland region of the Australian state of Victoria.
The Little River rises below Mount Nugong, in a state forestry area, and flows generally south, joined by one minor tributary, before reaching its confluence with the Tambo River south of Ensay in the Shire of East Gippsland. The river descends 289 metres (948 ft) over its 21-kilometre (13 mi) course.[3]
The Little River sub-catchment area is managed by the East Gippsland Catchment Management Authority.
The river is traversed by the Great Alpine Road near Ensay.[3]
The Australian Aboriginal name for the river in the Dhudhuroa language is Nalong with no defined meaning.[1]
This article about a location in Gippsland (region) is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article related to a river in Victoria (state) is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bankot Village is a town and a Panchayat in Sehore district in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. Bakot Village is a major agricultural production area in Madhya Pradesh. Earlier.[1]As of 2001[update] India census,[2]

This article related to a location in Madhya Pradesh is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Pedro's Treachery is a 1913 silent film drama short directed by and starring Romaine Fielding and produced by the Lubin Manufacturing Company.[1]

This 1910s drama film-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The MIDAS Trial is a randomized controlled trial in Manchester, England using Motivational Interventions for Drugs & Alcohol misuse in Schizophrenia. It is led by Professor Christine Barrowclough and operates in both Manchester and London.
The trial is, along with the Danish CapOpus trial, among the only trials aimed at this particular group of comorbid substance abusers with schizophrenia.

This article about a UK medical organisation, hospital, or association is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Nicholas of Basel (1308 - c. 1395)[1] was a prominent member of the Beghard community, who travelled widely as a missionary and propagated the teachings of his sect.[2]
Nicholas of Basel was born at Basel, Switzerland, in 1308. The son of a rich merchant, he inherited substantial wealth. His life of pleasure was interrupted by a spiritual experience, after which he became a devout religious teacher.[3] Nicholas was called by his followers the "Great Layman" or the "Great Friend of God".[2] This has led to some confusion that he was a leader of the 14th century lay mystical society the Friends of God, although this has been discounted.[4] Nicholas' teachings that, although not ordained, he had the authority to use episcopal and priestly powers, that submission to his direction was necessary for attaining spiritual perfection, and that his followers could not sin even though they committed crimes or disobeyed both Church and pope were at odds with those of the Dominican-inspired Friends of God. His teachings are akin to some of the more radical Beghards and the Brethren of the Free Spirit.
Though vigorously sought after by the Inquisition, he eluded its agents for many years until around 1395, he was seized in Vienna, and burned at the stake as a heretic, together with two of his followers, John and James.[5]
A considerable legend has attached itself to Nicholas through the persistent but mistaken identification of him with the mysterious "Friend of God from the Oberland,"[6] the "double" of Rulman Merswin, the Strasbourg banker who was one of the leaders of the 14th-century German mystics known as the Friends of God.
Christian anarchism
←
→
Events of 2020 in Latvia.
The timeline of particle physics lists the sequence of particle physics theories and discoveries in chronological order. The most modern developments follow the scientific development of the discipline of particle physics.
SNFU was a Canadian hardcore punk band formed in Edmonton in 1981, relocated to Vancouver in 1992, and disbanded in 2018.  They released eight albums, two live records, and one compilation amid many lineup changes and several temporary breakups.  Vocalist Ken Chinn (credited as Mr. Chi Pig) led the group, which included twin-brother guitarists Brent and Marc Belke for much of its career.
With founding drummer Evan C. Jones and early bassist Jimmy Schmitz, SNFU built an international audience through dynamic melodic hardcore punk as evident on their debut, ...And No One Else Wanted to Play (1985).[1]  They grew in popularity following the experimental If You Swear, You'll Catch No Fish (1986) with bassist Dave Bacon and drummer Jon Card, and the aggressive Better Than a Stick in the Eye (1988) with bassist Curtis Creager and drummer Ted Simm.  They disbanded in 1989, however, due to internal tensions.
SNFU reformed in 1991, beginning with a reunion tour intended as a one-off.  Drummer Dave Rees and bassist Rob Johnson ultimately completed their most lasting lineup.  They signed with indie label Epitaph Records, releasing Something Green and Leafy This Way Comes (1993), The One Voted Most Likely to Succeed (1995), and FYULABA (1996).  These achieved six-digit record sales as the band toured in support of Green Day and Bad Religion.[2]
After leaving Epitaph, the band lost Brent Belke and Rees in 1998 and Johnson in 2001.  Following a two-year hiatus, they self-released the critically praised In the Meantime and In Between Time (2004) with bassist Matt Warhurst and guest drummer Trevor MacGregor.  They again disbanded in 2005, with Marc Belke permanently departing.
Chinn and former member Ken Fleming reformed SNFU in 2007.  With a lineup including Card, guitarist Sean Colig, and bassist Kerry Cyr, they released Never Trouble Trouble Until Trouble Troubles You (2013).  Beginning in 2014, the band included Chinn, Bacon, guitarists Randy Steffes and Kurt Robertson, and several drummers.  They went on hiatus in March 2018,[3] and Chinn died on July 16, 2020.[4]
The band became a formative influence on the skate punk subgenre. Rankings of the best Canadian music have included their work.[5][6][7]
Ken Chinn met twin brothers Brent and Marc Belke in Edmonton in the late 1970s.  The three were teenagers who shared interests in the skateboarding subculture and burgeoning punk rock movement.[1]  They formed the punk band Live Sex Shows with drummer Ed Dobek and bassist Phil Larson in 1981,[1] which broke up later that year after a few gigs.
Chinn and the Belkes began a new group, Society's No Fucking Use, shortened to Society's NFU.[8]  Bassist Warren Bidlock and drummer Evan C. Jones completed the initial lineup.  After a few months of gigging, Bidlock departed due to stage fright.[9]  The group recorded a two-song demo cassette, "Life of a Bag Lady", with guest bassist Scott Juskiw.[9]
Jimmy Schmitz replaced Bidlock late in 1982, and the group adopted the SNFU moniker.  Two studio tracks on the It Came From Inner Space compilation LP on Rubber Records followed early in 1983 (songs re-released in 1990 on the Real Men Don't Watch Quincy bootleg 7-inch).[9]  SNFU built an audience throughout North America via their aggressive live set, support of touring acts such as Youth Brigade, the Dead Kennedys, Dayglo Abortions and GBH,[10] and the track "Victims of the Womanizer" on US label BYO Records' Something to Believe In compilation LP.
They recorded their debut album, ...And No One Else Wanted to Play, in Los Angeles late in 1984, which BYO released the following year.  The album made an impact in the underground punk scene, with noted artist Pushead writing in Maximumrocknroll that the band's "[r]igorous energy push[es] the limits of power with knocking flurry and extreme excitement."[11]  Pushead concluded that the album was "a scorcher."[11]
Jones left the band due to exhaustion in mid 1985, and Schmitz departed in May.[12]  Dave Bacon joined as bassist, while Jon Card (previously of Personality Crisis, and later of D.O.A and the Subhumans) moved to Edmonton and joined as drummer.  With the new lineup, the group toured North America. They released the comparatively experimental album[13] If You Swear, You'll Catch No Fish in 1986 via BYO.  Card left the band after the album's completion.[14]  With drummer Ted Simm, SNFU self-released the She's Not on the Menu 7-inch EP, which also included the "Life of a Bag Lady" recordings from 1982.  Bacon departed in early 1987 due to musical differences and health concerns.[15] Curtis Creager (of Urban Holiday), a former roommate of Chinn and Marc Belke, replaced him.
The band's popularity steadily increased. Flipside fanzine voted them Best Live Band in 1987 over the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Fugazi.  Metallica included photos of lead singer James Hetfield wearing SNFU's iconic 'zombie' T-shirt in their The $5.98 E.P. - Garage Days Re-Revisited.[16]  SNFU toured alongside Voivod and the Dayglo Abortions, and signed to Cargo Records.[17]  Cecil English produced their third record, Better Than a Stick in the Eye, which was issued in 1988 and remains influential among hardcore punk audiences.[18][19]  The supporting tour included the group's first trip to Europe.
Due to internal tensions and musical differences, they disbanded in late 1989.[1][20]  Simm returned to Winnipeg, while the Belkes and Creager formed the Wheat Chiefs (which the Belkes would keep active until 1998).  Chinn moved to Vancouver and led The Wongs and Little Joe, both short-lived.  Chinn also became open about his homosexuality, thereafter being an advocate for queer identity.[1][21]
To satisfy their contract with Cargo, in 1991 SNFU released The Last of the Big Time Suspenders, comprising live, demo, and studio-outtake tracks.[1]  The Belkes, Chinn, Creager, and Card reformed the band, initially planning only a supporting promotional tour.[1][22]  The tour was successful, however, and they reactivated the band several months later.[1]
The Belkes joined Chinn, Card, and new bassist Ken Fleming (formerly of the Winnipeg-based skate punk band The Unwanted) in Vancouver in June 1992.  But Card suffered from substance abuse problems,[23] and Dave Rees (formerly of the Wheat Chiefs and SNFU tour mates Broken Smile) replaced him in October. This lineup completed an extensive European tour.  The members dismissed Fleming late that year due to personality conflicts;[24] Wheat Chiefs bassist Rob Johnson joined thereafter.
In 1993, the band signed a three-record deal with Epitaph Records, an independent label on the cusp of mainstream success through The Offspring and Rancid.  SNFU entered a period of heavy activity.  They released two demos for their next album as the "Beautiful, Unlike You and I" EP on Hom Wreckerds Music.  The album, Something Green and Leafy This Way Comes, appeared in 1993.  Their music from this era was increasingly melodic, influenced by new directions in third-wave punk that they themselves helped to develop.[1]  They toured with Green Day and Bad Religion[25] and received opening support from Korn and Tool.[1]
In 1995, the band released The One Voted Most Likely to Succeed.  They hoped the record would succeed comparably to other third-wave punk albums, but it did not chart.[26]  Nonetheless, critics acknowledge it as a "classic of '90s punk"[27] in which the veteran musicians "handle the record's more difficult material with grace and power."[28]  The band released the Dave Ogilvie-produced follow-up FYULABA in 1996, which received mixed reviews.[29][30]
Epitaph did not renew the band's contract after it expired late in 1997.[1]  As a stopgap, SNFU issued Let's Get It Right the First Time, a faux-live album[31] co-released by Megaforce Records and their own Rake Records.  In March 1998, Rees and Brent Belke both departed to pursue careers in film and television.
Despite industry frustrations and lost members, Chinn, Johnson, and Marc Belke opted to continue.  Drummer Sean Stubbs (of Numb, Jakalope, and Bif Naked's band) completed their first four-piece lineup.  They continued to tour and began sporadic work on a new record, which would ultimately take six years.  Chris Thompson (known as Corporal Ninny) replaced Stubbs in 1999.  They released The Ping Pong EP, comprising five FYULABA outtakes, in 2000 via Alternative Tentacles.  The band also recorded sessions with guest drummer Trevor MacGregor (of Treble Charger), later to appear on their seventh studio album.
In June 2001, Johnson left after a nine-year tenure.[32] Matt Warhurst (of Ocean 3 and Jakalope) replaced him for a single gig, until Thompson departed and the band began a hiatus that would ultimately last two years.[32]  During the hiatus, Belke led Based On a True Story, also with Warhurst, before relocating to Toronto.[1]  Chinn formed Slaveco. with Warhurst and several musicians from Ocean 3 and Based On a True Story.
SNFU resumed in May 2003 with Marc Belke, Chinn, MacGregor, Warhurst, and producer Pete Wonsiak completing the new record.  Rake Records released the album, In the Meantime and In Between Time, the following year.  Critics heralded it as a return to form, with some ranking it among their finest work.[33][34]  The song "Cockatoo Quill" placed among the top 20 most beloved Canadian songs in a 2017 CBC Music poll.[6] Shane Smith (of Ocean 3, Based On a True Story, and Slaveco.) joined for touring in support of the album.
In August 2005, the group again disbanded due to industry frustrations and internal tensions.  Belke began working in radio, hosting his own show.[35]  Chinn's severe health problems escalated, and he became homeless for a time before entering into assisted living.[1][36]
In July 2007, Chinn and Fleming planned to play a set of SNFU songs as "asSNFU" at SNFU's 25th anniversary party.  With Fleming on guitar, they recruited bassist Bryan McCallum (of Karen Foster) and drummer Chad Mareels (of Fleming's Dog Eat Dogma).  asSNFU played a small handful of concerts thereafter before dropping the "as" prefix and billing themselves as simply "SNFU."  The continuation in the absence of Belke caused minor controversy;[1][37][38]  but Chinn stated, "As far as I’m concerned it’s SNFU. The band has changed all throughout the years, and this is just another change.  [...] Those songs are my life. I’ll fucking play them ‘til I die."[39]  Denis Nowoselski replaced McCallum in 2008, and Smith later returned to replace Mareels.  The group embarked on their heaviest activity since the Epitaph years, which included Canadian and European tours.
Open Your Mouth and Say... Mr. Chi Pig, a documentary film about Chinn, debuted in March 2010.  Produced by the Canadian company Prairie Coast Films and directed by Sean Patrick Shaul, it focused on Chinn, including his drug abuse and schizophrenia.[1][40]  It featured interviews with Jello Biafra of the Dead Kennedys, Brendan Canning of Broken Social Scene, Corb Lund of the Corb Lund and the Hurtin' Albertans and The Smalls, and Joey Keithley of D.O.A.[1]  In April, Jon Card joined the band for a third time,[41] replacing Smith.  Shortly thereafter, they completed their first five-piece lineup in 12 years by adding guitarist and vocalist Sean Colig (of Minority, Savannah, and SideSixtySeven).
Chinn's severe case of pneumonia led many 2011 dates to be canceled.[42]  The group nonetheless remained active, composing its first new material since reforming.[43] Punk historian and author Chris Walter released an official biography of the band, What No One Else Wanted to Say, via GFY Press.  Bassist Kerry Cyr (of SideSixtySeven) replaced Nowoselski in 2012.  The cover song "I Wanna Be an East Indian" appeared under the SNFU moniker on Cruzar Media's Dayglo Abortions tribute album, but the track featured only Chinn and unrelated backing musicians.[44]
Cruzar Media announced a September release for SNFU's eighth studio album, Never Trouble Trouble Until Trouble Troubles You, but delays followed.  The band embarked upon its first tour of Japan and a subsequent Canadian tour, with guest drummer Junior Kittlitz replacing the ailing Card.[45][46]  Ultimately released in November, it was their first record in nine years and only without Marc Belke.  It received mixed reviews from critics, some of whom praised the new lineup's successful approximation of the group's previous work.[47][48]  Others were critical, questioning Chinn's ability to continue performing.[49]  SNFU splintered late in 2013, as all members other than Chinn departed after the supporting tours.
Between lineups, Cruzar issued "I Wanna Be an East Indian" as a download single.  Chinn and returning bassist Bacon assembled a new incarnation in February with guitarists Kurt Robertson (of The Real McKenzies) and Randy Steffes (a former sound engineer and road manager for SNFU, The Real McKenzies, and Green Day), and drummer Adrian White (of Strapping Young Lad and Front Line Assembly).  Beginning in April, the band played in Europe, Canada, and made their first United States appearances since 2001.  They returned to Europe in July with British drummer Jamie Oliver (of the U.K. Subs).  Guest drummer Txutxo Krueger (of Total Chaos) also filled in for several dates.
They planned further Canadian touring for November, which would include returning Creager and Simm, but ultimately canceled the tour. With Bacon and Oliver, their 2015 Canadian performances included ...And No One Else Wanted to Play in its entirety to commemorate its 30th anniversary.  They also performed in Australia and New Zealand for the first time since 1997.  Basque drummer Batikão Est (of Estricalla) began playing with the group in 2016, including Canadian and European touring.
Marc Belke reworked two demo tracks from 2000 and released them as SNFU's "A Happy Number" single on Rake Records in November 2017.  The songs were far more experimental than anything else in the band's catalog and featured heavy use of electronic musical elements.  Writing for PunkNews.org, reviewer Jefftommy called the "odd duck of a record" a "pretty little song by a hardcore band of yore" and recommended the record for the band's fans;[50] Razorcake critic Ty Stranglehold praised the "hauntingly strange little ditties with keyboards and a drum machine" and the band's experimentation.[51]  The group's final live appearances were in early 2018.
The band planned further 2018 dates, but canceled these due to illness and announced a hiatus.[3]  Steffes and later Bacon joined the Real McKenzies.  In June 2019, Artoffact Records released ...And Yet, Another Pair of Lost Suspenders, a live album recorded during the 1992 reunion tour at Les Foufounes Électriques in Montreal.
In November, Chinn revealed that he had a serious medical condition projected soon to become fatal.[52]  While ill, he recorded a solo 7-inch single with orchestral versions of "Hurt" (written by Nine Inch Nails and later covered by Johnny Cash) and SNFU's "Painful Reminder."  Chinn died on July 16, 2020, at age 57.[4][53]  SNFU released the acoustic track "Cement Mixer," Chinn's final recording, via YouTube shortly after his death.[54][55]
Marc Belke and Rake Records released the EP A Blessing but with It a Curse in March 2021.  The EP included outtakes from the In The Meantime and In Between Time sessions and guest appearances from members of Propagandhi.[56]  Original drummer Jones died the following April.  ...And No One Else Wanted to Play was named the winner of the public vote for the 2022 Polaris Music Prize's Slaight Family Heritage Prize.[7]
Guests

Studio albums
Live albums
Compilations

Singles and EPs
Compilation appearances
Bootlegs
Ellis Owen (31 March 1789 – 27 January 1868) was a Welsh antiquarian and poet.
Owen was the son of Owen Ellis and Ann Thomas his wife, of Cefnymeusydd, in the parish of Ynys Cynhaiarn, Carnarvonshire, was born on 31 March 1789. He went to school at Penmorfa, and was afterwards sent to Shrewsbury; on returning home he settled at Cefynmeusydd, and on his father's death took charge of the farm. He spent the rest of his life at Cefnymeusydd as a prosperous farmer of much local influence, and died there on 27 January 1868. He was chiefly remarkable as a writer of ‘englynion’ (stanzas), as a local antiquary and genealogist, and as the friend and tutor of the young poets of the district. The ‘Literary Society of Cefnymeusydd,’ the precursor of many a society of the kind in Wales, met fortnightly at his house and under his presidency for eleven years (1846–57). His poetical and prose writings were published, with a biographical notice, under the title of ‘Cell Meudwy’ (‘The Hermit's Cell’) in 1877 (Tremadog). Four days before his death he had been elected a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries.
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lloyd, John Edward (1895). "Owen, Ellis". In Lee, Sidney (ed.). Dictionary of National Biography. Vol. 42. London: Smith, Elder & Co.
Alcoa Presents: One Step Beyond (also known as One Step Beyond) is an American anthology series created by Merwin Gerard. The original series was broadcast for three seasons by the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) from January 1959 to July 1961.
Created by Merwin Gerard and produced by Collier Young, One Step Beyond was hosted by John Newland, "your guide to the supernatural" (also credited as "Our guide into the world of the unknown"). Newland, who also directed every episode, presented tales that explored paranormal events and various situations that defied "logical" explanation. One Step Beyond purported only to tell stories based on "human record" (documented historical events).
Unlike other anthology programs, the ABC network series episodes were presented in the form of straightforward 30-minute docudramas, all said to be based on "human record" (implying historically factual events); however, the incidents depicted were closer to popular urban legends dramatized for the screen. The program included the corporate name of sponsor Alcoa in its title for its initial run. In syndication, the program title became simply One Step Beyond.[1]
One Step Beyond filled the time slot at 10 p.m. Tuesday vacated by the crime/police reality show Confession.
Among its varied tales, One Step Beyond dealt with premonition of death ("The Day the World Wept: The Lincoln Story") and disaster ("Tidal Wave", "Night of April 14th"); the existence of ghosts ("The Last Round", "The Death Waltz"); and wildly improbable coincidence ("Reunion"). Paula Raymond appeared in the third episode of the first season, initially broadcast on February 3, 1959, in the episode titled "Emergency Only," which also featured Jocelyn Brando as a screaming fortune teller at a party. Joan Fontaine and Warren Beatty play husband and wife in the episode "The Visitor."
A January 1961 episode, "The Sacred Mushroom," deals with the discovery of mind-altering drugs. Newland traveled to Mexico where he met with a local shaman who was an initiate in ritual use of magic mushrooms. The then-unknown mushrooms were purportedly able to increase the user's psychic powers. Newland ingested several mushrooms and allowed his reactions to be filmed for broadcast. This was the only episode of the entire series to have a relatively reality-based "documentary" tone, rather than the scripted docudramas that comprised all other episodes. Although the subject matter (the enhancement of psychic powers) accorded with the rest of the series, this episode was somewhat controversial and was omitted from the syndication; it has been seen only rarely since its original broadcast. However, according to Newland, it was the most popular episode of the series.[2][3] A complete transcript of this episode is reproduced in chapter seven of The Sacred Mushrooms of Mexico by Brian Akers.
The show used a large number of writers. Larry Marcus was the most prolific contributor, with over 30 episodes to his credit. Marcus would later win an Emmy for his work on Route 66, and receive an Oscar nomination for his screenplay for The Stunt Man.
Other relatively frequent contributors included show creator Merwin Gerard; Don M. Mankiewicz (who would later write for Star Trek); Gabrielle Upton (who wrote for a wide range of anthology shows, including The Alfred Hitchcock Hour, and was later head writer of The Guiding Light); and Howard Rodman (later story editor of Route 66 and creator of Harry O).
Charles Beaumont wrote two episodes of One Step Beyond just before jumping over to The Twilight Zone, to which he was a major contributor. Francis Cockrell also wrote two episodes; he was a frequent writer on Alfred Hitchcock Presents and would later contribute to the second season of The Outer Limits.
The last 13 episodes of the third season were filmed at MGM Studios, Borehamwood, England, due to a suggestion by Newland. According to Newland, "I thought it would give a little boost to the show because Great Britain offered good actors, good situations, and good settings. We sought permission from Alcoa, and they okayed it."[4]
Harry Lubin composed the music for the series with a soundtrack album, Music from 'One Step Beyond' released by Decca Records (DL 8970) in 1960. The most well-known tracks of the series were entitled: "Weird" (originally composed by Lubin for the score of an April 1955 Loretta Young Show episode, "Feeling No Pain"), usually played when the supernatural aspect of the episode was being discussed, and "Fear" that became the musical theme of the series.
The Ventures included a cover version of the show's main theme music "Fear" in their highly acclaimed 1964 Dolton Records album The Ventures in Space. The second season of The Outer Limits used a variation of "Fear" for the end titles.
A heavy metal cover of the title song was recorded by the band Fantômas on their album The Director's Cut in 2001.
After its cancellation during 1961, the series continued to be shown throughout the United States in off-network syndication until the early 1980s.
For its re-release to television for the Sci-Fi Channel during the 1990s, the initial and end titles were given new theme music and graphics designed for the time, as if the show had continued into the 1990s. These episodes were also edited for time from 25 minutes to 22 minutes.
Despite the public domain status for most episodes, the series' remaining copyrights belongs to its distributor CBS Television Distribution. CTD is the successor to the series' previous distributors, which include ABC Films successor Worldvision Enterprises and CTD's predecessor Paramount Domestic Television.
Episodes are currently broadcast by the Retro Television Network available as a digital subchannel in some US markets. Full episodes are also available for digital streaming on Amazon Prime (charge per episode as of 2021), FMC Movie Classics (free), Tubi (free), and Amazing Classics (free).
In May 2021 the UK nostalgia channel Talking Pictures TV began to broadcast the series, with the first episode airing on 11 May.[5]
During 2007, Mill Creek Entertainment released a 4-disc Region 1 DVD set entitled The Very Best of One Step Beyond. The set contains 50 episodes. The quality varied drastically from episode to episode.
On September 15, 2009, CBS Home Entertainment (distributed by Paramount under this label) released One Step Beyond - The Official 1st Season on Region 1 DVD.[6]
One Step Beyond is the first pre-1973 in-house production of ABC to get a DVD release from CBS/Paramount. Other shows once distributed by ABC Films (which became Worldvision Enterprises) were either released by CBS/Paramount because the company owns the libraries of the actual producers of the shows (such as The Fugitive or The Mod Squad), or were released by different companies because ancillary rights are owned by other entities (such as George of the Jungle).
The Film Chest Media Group released the series in a six-disc Collector's Box on April 7, 2015.[7] The box features only 70 episodes of the series, however (mostly episodes from the first two seasons). Very few of the third-season episodes are on this set.[8]
Delta Entertainment Corporation in 2005 released a collection of 33 (presumably public domain) episodes on eight region-free DVDs.
During 1978, the series was revived partly by Gerard and Young, with John Newland hosting and directing most of the episodes; the new series was named The Next Step Beyond. The series was broadcast for one year with 25 episodes, 14 of which were remakes of One Step Beyond episodes.
Jack Be Nimble is a 1993 New Zealand gothic horror film directed by Garth Maxwell, who later described it as "a stylised supernatural tale". The film stars the American Alexis Arquette and the New Zealand actor Sarah Smuts-Kennedy. It includes one of the final movie appearances of the legendary British/New Zealand actor and musician Bruno Lawrence.
Jack (Arquette) decides to put an end to the abuse he has received from his adoptive parents, and runs away to find his long lost sister, Dora (Smuts-Kennedy). Although Dora has fared much better since their abandonment and subsequent adoption, she is also drawn to use her telepathic powers to find him. Along the way, Jack is constantly pursued by the four daughters of his adoptive parents, seeking revenge for their parents' demise at the hands of Jack and his invention.
The film is available on DVD and Blu-ray.
The film has received many positive reviews.[citation needed] Stephen Holden of The New York Times wrote that "the film cuts back and forth between scenes of their childhood and adolescence, it evokes their misery and isolation with a feverish intensity that recalls scenes from Hitchcock and De Palma". Dominic Corry of the New Zealand Herald described the film as "one of the strangest New Zealand films ever made" and thought that it "deserves way more of a cult reputation than it currently enjoys".[1] Kim Newman of Empire Online said that Jack be Nimble was, "Not a film likely to please everyone, but strong stuff nonetheless".[2]

This article related to a New Zealand film is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a 1990s horror film is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
This is a list of cases reported in volume 225 of United States Reports, decided by the Supreme Court of the United States in 1912.
The Supreme Court is established by Article III, Section 1 of the Constitution of the United States, which says: "The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court . . .". The size of the Court is not specified; the Constitution leaves it to Congress to set the number of justices. Under the Judiciary Act of 1789 Congress originally fixed the number of justices at six (one chief justice and five associate justices).[1] Since 1789 Congress has varied the size of the Court from six to seven, nine, ten, and back to nine justices (always including one chief justice).
When the cases in volume 225 were decided the Court comprised the following nine members:
Hyde v. United States, 225 U.S. 347 (1912), is a criminal case in which the Supreme Court interpreted attempt.[2]: 688  The Court held that for an act to be a criminal attempt, it must be so near the result that the danger of its success must be very large.[2]: 688  The Court wrote, "There must be a dangerous proximity to success."[2]: 688 
Under the Judiciary Act of 1789 the federal court structure at the time comprised District Courts, which had general trial jurisdiction; Circuit Courts, which had mixed trial and appellate (from the US District Courts) jurisdiction; and the United States Supreme Court, which had appellate jurisdiction over the federal District and Circuit courts—and for certain issues over state courts. The Supreme Court also had limited original jurisdiction (i.e., in which cases could be filed directly with the Supreme Court without first having been heard by a lower federal or state court). There were one or more federal District Courts and/or Circuit Courts in each state, territory, or other geographical region.
The Judiciary Act of 1891 created the United States Courts of Appeals and reassigned the jurisdiction of most routine appeals from the district and circuit courts to these appellate courts. The Act created nine new courts that were originally known as the "United States Circuit Courts of Appeals." The new courts had jurisdiction over most appeals of lower court decisions. The Supreme Court could review either legal issues that a court of appeals certified or decisions of court of appeals by writ of certiorari.
On January 1, 1912, the effective date of the Judicial Code of 1911, the old Circuit Courts were abolished, with their remaining trial court jurisdiction transferred to the U.S. District Courts.
Bluebook citation style is used for case names, citations, and jurisdictions.
John Conduitt (/ˈkɒnd(j)uɪt/; c. 8 March 1688 – 23 May 1737), of Cranbury Park, Hampshire, was a British landowner and Whig politician.  He sat in the House of Commons from 1721 to 1737.  He was married to the half-niece of Sir Isaac Newton, whom Conduitt succeeded as Master of the Mint.
The son of Leonard and Sarah Conduitt, John was baptised at St Paul's, Covent Garden, London, on 8 March 1688.[1] In June 1701 he was admitted to St Peter's College, Westminster School, as a King's scholar.  In 1705, while at Westminster, he was elected a Queen's scholar to Trinity College, Cambridge, with three others.  He was admitted there in June of that year and matriculated to the University, but did not graduate, staying only two years.[2]
By 1707, based on his own account, he was "travelling" in Holland and Germany.  In September 1710, he became judge advocate with the British forces in Portugal.  He was a "very pretty gentleman" according to James Brydges.[3] From October 1710, he acted as the Earl of Portmore's secretary when the latter arrived in Portugal (N&Q)[clarification needed]. During this time, he kept the Earl of Dartmouth informed about the Portuguese court. He returned to London by October 1711 with Lord Portmore. During the following year, he was made a captain in a regiment of the dragoons serving in Portugal, but by September 1713 he had been appointed Deputy Paymaster General to the British forces in Gibraltar. Those posts appear to have been remunerative, and in May 1717 he returned home to England a rich man.  In 1720, Conduitt acquired the estate and house at Cranbury Park, near Winchester.
In June 1721, Conduitt was elected, on petition, as a Member of Parliament for Whitchurch, Hampshire, which he represented during the 1720s as a loyal supporter of Robert Walpole's Whig government.  Conduitt took an active interest in the running of Isaac Newton's office of Master of the Mint in the latter years of Newton's life, and after Newton's death in March 1727 Conduitt succeeded him to the post.[1]
Isaac Newton having died intestate, Conduitt was appointed by Newton's heirs to serve as executor of Newton's estate.  Conduitt collected materials for a life of Newton, some of which he forwarded to Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle, who used them to prepare Newton's obituary as a foreign member of the French Academy of Sciences.  John Newton, who as his most direct living descendant was heir to Isaac Newton's real estate, had to resort to the Chancery courts to get satisfaction from Conduitt.[4]
By the early 1730s, Conduitt had become a relatively prominent parliamentary speaker, defending the government on a number of issues, including Walpole's maintenance of the Septennial Act. In 1734, he was re-elected to his seat, but chose to represent Southampton. Conduitt, together with fellow MP's Sir John Crosse and George Heathcote, introduced the Witchcraft Act 1735, an enlightened piece of legislation that abolished the death penalty for witchcraft.  The Act marked the definitive end of witch-hunting in Great Britain, introducing instead a maximum penalty of one year's imprisonment for pretending to exercise magical powers.
Shortly after his arrival back in England, he became acquainted with Sir Isaac Newton and his half-niece Catherine Barton. After what must have been a whirlwind romance, they applied to the Faculty Office for a licence, which was granted on 23 August 1717, to marry at St Paul's, Covent Garden. Catherine, then aged 38 years, described herself as 32 years old, Conduitt more correctly as about 30. Despite the licence, they instead married three days later on 26 August in her uncle's parish in the Russell Court Chapel in the church of St Martin in the Fields.  Perhaps in an effort to dignify himself for his impending marriage to one of London's famous daughters, Conduitt obtained for himself a grant of arms from the College of Heralds on 16 August.
The couple had one daughter, named after her mother, born 23 May 1721 and baptised in the same parish of St Martin's on 8 June. Partly as a result of his antiquarian interests, Conduitt was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society on 1 December 1718, proposed by the president, and his uncle by marriage, Sir Isaac Newton. Sir Isaac Newton took up residence at Cranbury with his niece and her husband until his death in 1727 towards the end of his life.[5]
Conduitt died on 23 May 1737 at age 49, and was buried on 29 May in Westminster Abbey, next to Sir Isaac Newton.[6] His wife Catherine died in 1739 and was buried with him. In his will, dated 1732, he had left his estate to his wife and made her guardian of their underage daughter Catherine. Upon his death, the trustees sold the estate at Cranbury Park[5][7] as well as estates at Weston and Netley, near Southampton, to Thomas Lee Dummer, who succeeded Conduitt as MP for Southampton.
In 1740 his daughter Catherine married John Wallop, Viscount Lymington, the eldest son of the Earl of Portsmouth.  Catherine's son John Wallop succeeded his grandfather to the peerage.
Ghulam Mohammad Lalzad Baloch or Lalzad Baloch (Balochi: گُلام مھمد لالزاد بلۏچ ) is a Baluchi language broadcast journalist, based in Toronto, Canada.  He is originally from Nimroz Afghanistan.[1] He was with the Baluchi service of All India Radio from 1974 to 2003.[2][3]
His attended Farokhi school in Zaranj, Nimroz, Noon.[citation needed] He studied law and political science at Kabul University (Department of Justice) and earned a PhD in literature (She'r e Ma'sir e Dari in Afghanistan) from Jamia Millia Islamia University, Delhi.[citation needed]
He joined Radio Afghanistan as a university student. from 1972 to 1974, he worked with All India Radio's Balochi service from 1974 to 2003. He runs two news services.  He also works with Hamwatan Translation Company.[4]

This article about an Afghan journalist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Royal Prussian Army was the principal armed force of the Kingdom of Prussia during its participation in the Napoleonic Wars.
Frederick the Great's successor, his nephew Frederick William II (1786–97), relaxed conditions in Prussia and had little interest in war. He delegated responsibility to the aged Charles William Ferdinand, Duke of Brunswick, and the army began to degrade in quality. Led by veterans of the Silesian Wars, the Prussian Army was ill-equipped to deal with Revolutionary France. The officers retained the same training, tactics, and weaponry used by Frederick the Great some forty years earlier.[1] In comparison, the revolutionary army of France, especially under Napoleon Bonaparte, was developing new methods of organization, supply, mobility, and command.[2]
Prussia withdrew from the First Coalition in the Peace of Basel (1795), ceding the Rhenish territories to France. Upon Frederick William II's death in 1797, the state was bankrupt and the army outdated.
He was succeeded by his son, Frederick William III (1797–1840), who involved Prussia in the disastrous Fourth Coalition. The Prussian Army was decisively defeated in the battles of Saalfeld, Jena, and Auerstedt in 1806. The Prussians' famed discipline collapsed and led to widescale surrendering among infantry, cavalry, and garrisons. While some Prussian commanders acquitted themselves well, such as L'Estocq at Eylau, Gneisenau at Kolberg, and Blücher at Lübeck, they were not enough to reverse Jena-Auerstedt. Prussia submitted to major territorial losses, a standing army of only 42,000 men, and an alliance with France in the Treaty of Tilsit (1807).
The defeat of the disorganized army shocked the Prussian establishment, which had largely felt invincible after the Frederician victories. While Stein and Hardenberg began modernizing the Prussian state, Scharnhorst began to reform the military. He led a Military Reorganization Committee, which included Gneisenau, Grolman, Boyen, and the civilians Stein and Könen.[3] Clausewitz assisted with the reorganization as well. Dismayed by the populace's indifferent reaction to the 1806 defeats, the reformers wanted to cultivate patriotism within the country.[4] Stein's reforms abolished serfdom in 1807 and initiated local city government in 1808.[5]
The generals of the army were completely overhauled — of the 143 Prussian generals in 1806, only Blücher and Tauentzien remained by the Sixth Coalition;[6] many were allowed to redeem their reputations in the war of 1813.[7] The officer corps was reopened to the middle class in 1808, while advancement into the higher ranks became based on education.[3][8] King Frederick William III created the War Ministry in 1809, and Scharnhorst founded an officer's training school, the later Prussian War Academy, in Berlin in 1810.
Scharnhorst advocated adopting the levée en masse, the military conscription used by France. He created the Krümpersystem, by which companies replaced 3–5 men monthly, allowing up to 60 extra men to be trained annually per company.[6] This system granted the army a larger reserve of 30,000–150,000 extra troops[3] The Krümpersystem was also the beginning of short-term compulsory service in Prussia, as opposed to the long-term conscription previously used.[9] Because the occupying French prohibited the Prussians from forming divisions, the Prussian Army was divided into six brigades, each consisting of seven to eight infantry battalions and twelve squadrons of cavalry. The combined brigades were supplemented with three brigades of artillery.[10]
Corporal punishment was by and large abolished, while soldiers were trained in the field and in tirailleur tactics. Scharnhorst promoted the integration of the infantry, cavalry, and artillery through combined arms, as opposed to their previous independent states. Equipment and tactics were updated in respect to the Napoleonic campaigns. The field manual issued by Yorck in 1812 emphasized combined arms and faster marching speeds.[11]  In 1813, Scharnhorst succeeded in attaching a chief of staff trained at the academy to each field commander.
Some reforms were opposed by Frederician traditionalists, such as Yorck, who felt that middle class officers would erode the privileges of the aristocratic officer corps and promote the ideas of the French Revolution.[12] The army reform movement was cut short by Scharnhorst's death in 1813, and the shift to a more democratic and middle class military began to lose momentum in the face of the reactionary government.
The reformers and much of the public called for Frederick William III to ally with the Austrian Empire in its 1809 campaign against France. When the cautious king refused to support a new Prussian war, however, Schill led his hussar regiment against the occupying French, expecting to provoke a national uprising. The king considered Schill a mutineer, and the major's rebellion was crushed at Stralsund by French allies.[13]
The Franco-Prussian treaty of 1812 forced Prussia to provide 20,000 troops to Napoleon's Grande Armée, first under the leadership of Grawert and then under Yorck. The French occupation of Prussia was reaffirmed, and 300 demoralized Prussian officers resigned in protest.[14]
During Napoleon's retreat from Russia in 1812, Yorck independently signed the Convention of Tauroggen with Russia, breaking the Franco-Prussian alliance. Stein arrived in East Prussia and led the raising of Landwehr (militia) to defend the province. With Prussia's joining of the Sixth Coalition out of his hands, Frederick William III quickly began to mobilize the army, and the East Prussian Landwehr was duplicated in the rest of the country. In comparison to 1806, the Prussian populace, especially the middle class, was supportive of the war, and thousands of volunteers joined the army. Prussian troops under the leadership of Blücher and Gneisenau proved vital at the Battles of Leipzig (1813) and Waterloo (1815). Later staff officers were impressed with the simultaneous operations of separate groups of the Prussian Army.
The Iron Cross was introduced as a military decoration by King Frederick William III in 1813. After the publication of his On War, Clausewitz became a widely studied philosopher of war.[15]
The Prussian, and later German General Staff, which developed out of meetings of the Great Elector with his senior officers[13] and the informal meeting of the Napoleonic Era reformers, was formally created in 1814. In the same year Boyen and Grolman drafted a law for universal conscription, by which men would successively serve in the standing army, the Landwehr, and the local Landsturm until the age of 39.[16]  Troops of the 136,000-strong standing army served for three years and were in the reserves for two, while militiamen of the 163,000-strong Landwehr served a few weeks annually for seven years.[17]} Boyen and Blücher strongly supported the 'civilian army' of the Landwehr, which was to unite military and civilian society, as an equal to the standing army.[18]
The Convention of Tauroggen became the starting-point of Prussia's regeneration. As the news of the destruction of the Grande Armée spread, and the appearance of countless stragglers convinced the Prussian people of the reality of the disaster, the spirit generated by years of French domination burst out. For the moment the king and his ministers were placed in a position of the greatest anxiety, for they knew the resources of France and the boundless versatility of their arch-enemy far too well to imagine that the end of their sufferings was yet in sight. To disavow the acts and desires of the army and of the secret societies for defence with which all north Germany was honeycombed would be to imperil the very existence of the monarchy, whilst an attack on the wreck of the Grand Army meant the certainty of a terrible retribution from the new armies now rapidly forming on the Rhine.[19]
But the Russians and the soldiers were resolved to continue the campaign, and working in collusion they put pressure on the not unwilling representatives of the civil power to facilitate the supply and equipment of such troops as were still in the field; they could not refuse food and shelter to their starving countrymen or their loyal allies, and thus by degrees the French garrisons scattered about the country either found themselves surrounded or were compelled to retire to avoid that fate. Thus it happened that the viceroy of Italy felt himself compelled to depart from the positive injunctions of Napoleon  to hold on at all costs to his advanced position at Posen, where about 14,000 men had gradually rallied around him, and to withdraw step by step to Magdeburg, where he met reinforcements and commanded the whole course of the lower Elbe.[20]
This army was composed entirely of Prussians from the provinces of the Kingdom of Prussia, old and recently acquired alike. Field Marshal Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher commanded this army with General August Neidhardt von Gneisenau as his chief of staff and second in command.[21]
Blücher's Prussian army of 116,000 men, with headquarters at Namur, was distributed as follows:
This army was part of the Prussian Army above, but was to act independently much further south. It was composed of contingents from the following nations of the German Confederation: Electorate of Hessen, Grand Duchy of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, Grand Duchy of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, Grand Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, Duchy of Oldenburg (state), Duchy of Saxe-Gotha, Duchy of Anhalt-Bernburg, Duchy of Anhalt-Dessau, Duchy of Anhalt-Kothen, Principality of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, Principality of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen, Principality of Waldeck (state), Principality of Lippe and the Principality of Schaumburg-Lippe.[24]
Fearing that Napoleon was going to strike him first, Blücher ordered this army to march north to join the rest of his own army.[25] The Prussian General Friedrich Graf Kleist von Nollendorf initially commanded this army before he fell ill on 18 June and was replaced by the Hessen-Kassel General Von Engelhardt.[25][26] Its composition in June was:[27]
Total 25,000[28]
Besides the four Army Corps that fought in the Waterloo Campaign listed above that Blücher took with him into the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Prussia also had a reserve army stationed at home in order to defend its borders.
This consisted of:[29]
The Prussian General Quartermaster Staff (General-Quartiermeister-Stab) was initially established by Frederick William III in 1803. It was divided into three departments each corresponding with parts of the state. The Eastern brigade covering the territory east of the Vistula, the Western Brigade covering the territory west of the Elbe and the Southern Brigade covering the south of the kingdom. It was headed by a General Quartermaster (General-Quartiermeister) while a Lieutenant (General-Quartiermeister-Lieutenant) headed each brigade. This lasted until 1807 when the three brigades were merged. 
During peacetime they were to develop operational plans for defensive and offensive actions in any potential campaign. They were also to produce detailed maps. From 1808 they studied recent campaigns and considered potential future scenarios. In 1810 Frederick William decreed that staff officers serve with different branches so as to gain practical knowledge of soldiering. On mobilisation staff officers would then be distributed among the personal staff of generals in various commands.[30]
This chart shows the line Infantry, cavalry, and light Infantry ranking system for the Royal Prussian Army of 1808 onward. General der Infanterie & its equivalent, General der Cavallerie, were unused, however still official, from 1808 until December 1813. Do note that these ranks are in the contemporary German used by the Prussians, not modern German.
The König could also serve as a military commander.
As of 1813, the Royal Prussian Army's Royal Guard consisted of the following regiments:
The following regiments were raised after Napoleon's exile in 1815, with the exception of the 2 grenadier regiments which were created in 1814 as a result of merging the provincial grenadier battalions:
Royal Prussian Army uniforms consisted of a variety of colors. The Regimental colors determined the colors of one's facing color (collar, cuffs, lapels before 1809) and button color.
A wind erosion equation is an equation used to design wind erosion control systems, which considers soil erodibility, soil roughness, climate, the unsheltered distance across a field, and the vegetative cover on the ground.[1]




E
=
f
(
I
,
K
,
C
,
L
,
V
)


{\displaystyle E=f(I,K,C,L,V)}


The Wind Erosion Equation (WEQ) is a mathematical model used to estimate the potential average annual soil loss (E) from a field due to wind erosion. This equation incorporates several key variables: the Soil Erodibility Index (I), which measures the susceptibility of soil to erosion; the Soil Ridge Roughness Factor (K), reflecting the surface roughness and its impact on wind flow; the Climatic Factor (C), representing the influence of wind speed and frequency on erosion; the Unsheltered Median Travel Distance (L), indicating the distance over which wind can travel unimpeded across a field; and the Equivalent Quantity of Vegetative Cover (V), accounting for the protective effect of vegetation in reducing soil erosion. Together, these variables enable a comprehensive assessment of the risk and severity of wind erosion in agricultural and environmental planning.[2]
The study of wind erosion involves understanding the factors influencing the wind's capacity to mobilize soil. The potency of wind in causing soil movement is notably correlated with the cube of the wind's speed and its persistence. Research indicates that soil movement commences when wind speeds surpass a critical threshold and the rate of erosion aligns with the cube of the friction velocity. Friction velocity, denoted as 




U

∗




{\textstyle U_{*}}

, is a meteorological term for wind speed at the Earth's surface and can be quantified using the equation:





U

∗


=


U

5.75
log
⁡


z
k







{\displaystyle U_{*}={\frac {U}{5.75\log {\frac {z}{k}}}}}


In this equation, 



U


{\displaystyle U}

 represents the wind velocity measured at height 



z


{\displaystyle z}

, and 



k


{\displaystyle k}

 is the von Kármán constant, roughly valued at 0.4. This relationship is indicative of the logarithmic wind profile, which describes the variation of wind speed with altitude, influenced by surface texture and atmospheric conditions.
Historically, acquiring precise wind data to study these phenomena has been challenging. Records of detailed wind velocities and directions are predominantly sourced from strategic locations such as airports or military bases. The scarcity of these records, often limited in both geographical scope and historical range—frequently dating back to the World War II era—poses significant limitations to the research. Methodological inconsistencies, such as the lack of standardized measurement heights, introduce variables that may affect the accuracy of correlating wind speed with height, which is critical for predicting erosion accurately. Additionally, local environmental factors like temperature gradients, structural barriers, and ground conditions can further obscure precise erosion forecasting.[3]

This geomorphology article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Pol Beh Pain Rural District (Persian: دهستان پل به پائين)[3] is in Simakan District of Jahrom County, Fars province, Iran.[4] Its capital is the village of Shaghun.[5]
At the National Census of 2006, its population was 5,028 in 1,055 households.[6] There were 5,069 inhabitants in 1,255 households at the following census of 2011.[7] At the most recent census of 2016, the population of the rural district was 5,044 in 1,423 households. The largest of its 19 villages was Shaghun, with 798 people.[2]

This Jahrom County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Fuessenich Park is a baseball field located in downtown Torrington, Connecticut, United States, with a capacity of 1,500 fans. Between the late 1990s and mid-2010s, the park hosted two collegiate summer baseball franchises, the Torrington Twisters and Torrington Titans
The field was home to the Torrington Titans of the Futures Collegiate Baseball League from 2010 to 2016. Prior to the Titans, the field was home to the Torrington Twisters of the New England Collegiate Baseball League (NECBL) from 1997 to 2008.[1]  It hosted two NECBL All-Star Games, in 1998 and 2008, respectively. The park was home to the Torrington Braves of the Colonial League for the 1950 season.[2]
The field has also been home to the American Legion Baseball League team for high school age players, the Tri-State Baseball League team for post-high school players, and additional organized baseball leagues and events for middle school and high school players.
WKST (1200 kHz) is a commercial AM radio station in New Castle, Pennsylvania, serving Lawrence County. It has a classic hits format and is owned by Seven Mountains Media of State College, Pennsylvania, through licensee Southern Belle Media Family, LLC, which also owns 34 other radio stations in Pennsylvania including WUZZ (AM) in New Castle and WYLE (FM) in Grove City.
WKST is powered by day at 5,000 watts, using a non-directional antenna. But because AM 1200 is a clear channel frequency reserved for Class A WOAI San Antonio, WKST must reduce its power at night to 1,000 watts and use a directional antenna. The transmitter is off Gilmore Road near Interstate 376 in North Beaver Township.[1]
The station currently has one local weekday talk show, the morning drive time program hosted by veteran broadcaster Ken Hlebovy. Local news coverage is provided by Wade Sutton. The rest of the weekday schedule is made up of nationally syndicated shows, including Glenn Beck, Dave Ramsey, Sean Hannity, Mark Levin, Jim Bohannon, "Coast to Coast AM with George Noory" and "America in the Morning with John Trout."
Weekends feature shows on money, health, gardening, home repair and technology, as well as Saturday and Sunday morning polka music programs with Val Palowski. Weekend syndicated talk hosts include "The Tech Guy with Leo Laporte," "The Weekend with Joe Pags," "At Home with Gary Sullivan," "In The Garden with Ron Wilson" and "Somewhere in Time with Art Bell" as well as repeats of weekday shows. World and national news is provided by Fox News Radio.
WKST carries New Castle High School basketball and football broadcasts as well as Cleveland Browns football.
WKST signed on the air on October 23, 1938 (85 years ago) (1938-10-23), but prior to November 5, 1999, it was at 1280 kHz. The original owner was Sam Townsend who operated the station until retiring to Florida in 1963. The call sign of the station was named after his wife and children (Wanda - Kim - Sam - Townsend).  In the 1940s it was a Mutual Broadcasting System network affiliate. It carried Mutual's dramas, comedies, news, sports, soap operas, game shows, children's shows and big band broadcasts, during the "Golden Age of Radio."
In 1942, Alan Freed landed his first broadcasting job at WKST, before moving on to nearby WKBN Youngstown, Ohio, followed by WAKR Akron, and then WJW Cleveland — the station where Freed is credited with popularizing the term "rock and roll" to describe the music genre. By the 1970s, WKST was owned by Faye and Herb Scott, formerly based in Pottstown, Pennsylvania, and held in the name of Great Scott Broadcasting. Great Scott purchased FM station WFEM in Ellwood City, and it became WKST-FM on January 1, 1988. In the late 1990s, after the death of the Scotts, Great Scott decided to concentrate on its radio holdings in Delaware. It sold WKST and WKST-FM to Jacor Communications for $2.5 million in December 1998.
Prior to November 5, 1999, the 1200 kHz frequency was occupied by WBZY. WBZY began broadcasting in 1968. In December 1986, WBZY was sold by Lawrence County Broadcasting Corp. to a partnership called WBZY Radio Sam (the "Sam" representing the surname initials of partners Samuel M. Shirey, William G. Andrews and Robert L. McCracken). Andrews sold his share to the other two partners in 1991. WBZY was then sold to Jacor in April 1999 for $800,000.[2]  Jacor was purchased by Clear Channel Communications shortly thereafter. (Clear Channel later changed its name to iHeartMedia, Inc.)
Clear Channel, which also owned WKST, switched the call signs and formats in November 1999. The call sign of WKST-FM was changed to WJST on October 10, 2000, and the WKST-FM call sign was moved to Pittsburgh where it could be used with Clear Channel's KISS-FM brand. In April 2004, Clear Channel announced the sale of WKST along with WBZY and WJST (FM) to Forever Broadcasting for $2.85 million.[3] On September 20, 2004, the WJST call sign was moved to 1280 AM, and WJST-FM became WKPL (FM).
It was announced on October 12, 2022 that Forever Media was selling 34 stations, including WKST, to State College-based Seven Mountains Media for $17.375 million.[4] The deal closed on January 1, 2023.[5]
On October 16, 2023 WKST changed their format from talk to a simulcast of classic hits-formatted WHMJ 99.3 FM Franklin, branded as "WUZZ Radio".[6]

40°56′22″N 80°23′38″W﻿ / ﻿40.93944°N 80.39389°W﻿ / 40.93944; -80.39389
Edith Alice Andrews (née Cubitt; 1873–1958) was a British painter and illustrator.
Andrews was born in Deptford to Kate and Herbert Cubitt, who were from Surrey and Norfolk respectively.[1] Andrews studied at Goldsmiths' College of Art in London and won a number of medals and prizes while a student.[2] During her career, Andrews illustrated books, including children's books, for several publishers including the Oxford University Press, Cassell, Blackie and Son and Ernest Nister.[1] She also created flower paintings, portrait pictures and miniatures.[3] One of her designs was used as publicity by the Great Western Railway.[2]
Andrews was a regular exhibitor at the Royal Academy in London between 1905 and 1954 and with the Society of Women Artists during the 1920s.[1] She also exhibited with the Royal Institute of Oil Painters, the Royal Institute of Painters in Watercolours, at the Paris Salon and at the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool.[3][2] Andrews lived at High Wycombe for a time and then at Pembury in Kent.[3] The Victoria and Albert Museum in London holds examples of her book illustrations.[4]
Louisa Angelina Santospirito (née Virgona; (1895-04-04)4 April 1895 – (1983-11-19)19 November 1983), known affectionately as Lena, was an Australian community worker who aided Italian immigrants in Australia during and after World War II. She served for fifteen years as president of the archbishop's committee, established by Melbourne Archbishop Daniel Mannix after Australia began interning Italian civilians in World War II. She was awarded the Star of Italian Solidarity in 1953.[1]
Louisa Angelina Virgona, known by the nickname Lena, was born on 4 April 1895 in Ballarat, Victoria.  Her parents, Bartolo and Barolina Virgona, were Italian immigrants who had come to Australia from the town of Malfa, located on the island of Salina, in the Aeolian Islands.   Her father Bartolo, arrived in 1890, establishing a business as a green grocer. His wife, Bartolina, and their eldest child Vincent arrived in 1892.[2] Lena was the fourth and last of the couple's children. In addition to her brother Vincent, she had two older sisters, Maria and Rosa.  Not long after Lena's birth, the family moved to Fitzroy, Melbourne.  Lena attended St. Joseph's School and later Catholic Ladies College.  In 1913, she began working as a telephone operator at the Postmaster General's office; she worked for twelve years, until her marriage.
She married Antonio Santospirito, a flower merchant, in 1925.  Antonio had been born in Salina in 1892.[2] Like Lena's family, the Santospirito family had immigrated to Australia from the Aeolian Islands in the 1890s.[3] Together, Antonio and Lena had three children: Gerard, Maria and Antonio.[3][4]
As a volunteer, Lena worked closely with Father De Francesco[3] and Father Ugo Modotti, who served as chaplains to the Italian community in Melbourne.[4]  Her sister, Mary, also assisted in this charitable work, responding to the needs of Italian immigrants.[3] Through this work, Lena was asked to take on leadership in the establishment of the Archbishop's committee, established in July 1940, to aid Italian civilians detained in internment camps, and Italian prisoners of war being held in Australia. She served on this committee for fifteen years.[4]
Antonio Santospirito died in 1959.  Lena Santospirito died on 19 November 1983, in Camberwell, Melbourne, and was buried at Melbourne General Cemetery.[4] Her papers are housed at the Italian Historical Society, located in Carlton, Victoria.[5]
By the time of Santospirito's birth, there were about 1500 Italians living in Victoria, Australia, many of whom had been lured by the discovery of gold.[6] While quotas had been set in 1928 to limit the number of Italians who could enter the country, immigration continued throughout the early years of the 20th century.[6]  By the 1940s there were about 33,000 Italians living in Australia.[7]
In 1940, after entering World War II, the Australian government began interning Italian-born civilians who were not naturalized. In response,  Archbishop Daniel Mannix established an archbishop's committee to serve the needs of Italians in the camps. The committee also provided relief for Italian prisoners of war being held in Australia.[2]  Santospirito was appointed president of the committee, and would serve in this role for the next fifteen years.[4]
After the war, the archbishop's committee sent relief to the war-torn country of Italy, and provided aid to newly arrived Italian immigrants in Victoria.   Santospirito's home became the center of this charitable work. She organized events to raise money to help new immigrants, including dances.[8]  She personally sponsored many individuals seeking to enter the country.[4] In
Santospirito stepped down as president of the archbishop's committee in 1955, after fifteen years at the helm. In 1959, she received the Italian Star of Solidarity in honor of her work.[4]
In 1947, Melbourne was home to more than 8,000 Italian immigrants. This number would increase to over 91,000 by 1960.[9]  Many of these new arrivals had been assisted by Lena Santospirito personally or benefitted from her charitable work.
The Italian government awarded Santospirito the Italian Star of Solidarity on 31 July 1953.[1]  She was named to the Victorian Honour Roll of Women in 2001.[10]
Côte-Saint-Paul is a neighbourhood located in the Southwest Borough of Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
The concession of côte Saint-Paul was granted by the Sulpician Order, seigneurs of the Island of Montreal, in 1662. It extended northward from the current site past the current location of the Lachine Canal to Lac à la Loutre, which was then located at the foot of the Falaise Saint-Jacques, where the Turcot yards are today. The area was essentially agricultural, and remained so until the Lachine Canal bisected the area in 1825; Lac à la Loutre was dried out. Chemin de la Rivière-Saint-Pierre (now avenue de l'Église) was built to join Chemin de la Côte-des-Argoulets (Boulevard LaSalle) with the Chemin de la Côte-Saint-Paul (Rue Saint-Patrick).
With the canal providing water power for factories, workers started to move in nearby, forming the nucleus of the community in the triangle bounded by the Lachine Canal, Rue Angers, and Avenue de l'Église. The village of Côte-Saint-Paul was founded in 1874. The first Église Saint-Paul was built in 1875, and a town hall and railway station soon followed. The western part of the village separated in 1878, forming the Parish Municipality of Côte-Saint-Paul, later Ville-Émard. The balance of the village of Côte-Saint-Paul became a town in 1894 and was renamed Saint-Paul in 1897.
Clockwise from the north, the town of Saint-Paul was bounded by the Lachine Canal, the Grand Trunk Railway, the north bank of the Aqueduct Canal, the property line behind the lots on the west side of Frontenac Street (now Rue Leprohon), a property line just north of Rielle Street (now Rue Laurendeau), First Avenue (now Rue le Caron), and St. Louis Street (now Rue Briand).[2]
In 1910, Saint-Paul merged into the city of Montreal at the same time as neighbouring Ville-Émard. Industrial development continued and the remaining agricultural lands were converted to housing. However, like the rest of the Lachine Canal area, the neighbourhood went into decline with the construction of the St. Lawrence Seaway. The construction of the Décarie Expressway and the Turcot Interchange in 1964 tore through the heart of old Saint-Paul, though it spared the institutional buildings along Avenue de l'Église. In 1978, the Montreal Metro reached Côte-Saint-Paul with the construction of Jolicoeur metro station.[3]
In 2002, the area became part of the borough of Le Sud-Ouest. Today, the western limit of the neighbourhood Côte-Saint-Paul is not precisely defined, but it is somewhat expanded to the west of the official limit in its days as an independent town, with the building-up of the agricultural land since then and the destruction of the town's centre.
The neighbourhood is bordered to the south by Desmarchais Boulevard, to the west by Monk Boulevard, to east by the aqueduct, and to the north by the Lachine Canal and the railroad track bordering Pointe-Saint-Charles. Côte-Saint-Paul can be accessed by the De La Vérendrye exit on Quebec Autoroute 15.
The neighbourhood is served by the Jolicoeur Montreal Metro station. It is crossed and bordered by the Lachine Canal and the Aqueduct Canal.
Parc de La Vérendrye and Parc Saint-Paul offer recreation, and the Aqueduc and Lachine Canal bicycle paths are linked by a path through the Côte Saint-Paul industrial area east of the Décarie Expressway.
See text.
Leikung is a spider genus of the jumping spider family, Salticidae.
This article related to jumping spiders (Salticidae) is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Hoyau or hoyau kamui (var, oyau kamui), in Ainu mythology, is a type of malodorous and venomous dragon or dragon god, believed to thrive in summer or near fire, but lose strength in the cold, whose trait earns it the alternative name of sak-somo-ayep ("that which must not be mentioned in the summer"). 
They are generally held to be dwellers of  lakes and swamps, but are also winged according to some folklore accounts.
The Ainu dragon (wanjiku) is generally held to dwell in lakes and swamps and issue foul odor, and are known by such names as the hoyau (meaning "serpent" in Sakhalin dialect[1]), chatai or catay (borrowed from Japanese jatai (蛇体) lit. "serpent body" ), and sak-somo-ayep (lit. "that which must not be mentioned in the summer.").[a][6][1]
According to the  lore collected by Iwao Yoshida [ja], the hoyau belongs to the tribe of sak-somo-ayep.[3] Epic songs (yukar) from the Saru District region (i.e., western rim of Hidaka Subprefecture) refer to the serpent as hoyau, according to Genzō Sarashina [ja], though he also describes at length the legend of the hoyau kamui of Lake Tōya localized around the Abuta District in the Iburi Subprefecture.[7][b]
The sak-somo-ayep is said to dwell in lakes and swamps of the western parts of the Hidaka Subprefecture region. According to lore around this Hidaka region, the sak-somo-ayep possesses a winged, serpent-like body, with torso like a tawara or a bale of rice (i.e. stout and cylindrical), and a narrow head and tail emerging out of this trunk.  It also has a pointed, chisel-like snout which can slice or rip large trees. The whole body is pale black in color, but the rim around the eyes and the periphery of the mouth are scarlet.[c][7]
According to some lore, the hoyau (oyau) that has gained wings are called rap-us-oyau (ラプウシオヤウ).[3] But according to the native Ainu folklorist Mashiho Chiri, hoyau was the common vulgar name, while rap-us-nupur-kur (ラプシヌプルクル, lit. "winged supernaturally-powered deity") was its divine name for the same divinity.[1]
The aforementioned sak-somo-ayep appellation (meaning "one which cannot be spoken of in summer") derives its name from the belief that the dragon thrives in summer or near a fire sources, but are weakened and unable to command movement of their bodies as desired in the winter or cold, similar in nature to the serpent that hibernates when temperatures drop.[1][4] As it abhors the cold, it may spiritually possess a miko (shamaness) and command humans to "stoke the fire".[1]
The sak-somo-ayep not only issues a foul smell,[d] but contact with this body odor or musk causes plants to shrivel and die. Humans situated downwind of the dragon may lose their body hair, or develop swells on their skin, and should they come too near they can be afflicted by fatal skin-ravaging burns.[7][8] At a hamlet named Chin at the mouth of the Mu River on the side towards Hidaka, a swamp referred to as a kamui-tō ("God swamp") was said to be inhabited by the hoyau kamui, and passersby took the precaution of always checking the condition of the swamp from a hilltop before approaching the village, lest they suffer the ill effects of the hoyau kamui.[8]
Swamps on Mount Poroshiri, the tallest peak of the Hidaka Mountains, as well as mountains in the Saru District region are reputedly inhabited by the sak-somo-ayep, and though they cannot be seen, the strong smell issued by the dragons have been held responsible for the swelling or bloating developed on the skin, according to testimony by early 20th century informants.[e][3]
According to one epic song (yukar), the dragon-god sak-somo-ayep issued a stench that was noxious and lethal to both humans and gods, so that the deity Okikurmi took on the task of slaying it. The god pretended to be human, and connived the dragon into visiting a village upstream. The villagers were busy arranging for some ceremony, evidently a wedding, with the elder preparing to give away his (aged) daughter in marriage to the dragon. However, when the dragon ate the delectable fish offered, it caused a belly ache that eventually proved his death. The villagers were actually a tribe of hornets or shi-soya (and the elder was the lord of these hornets), that had been assigned the mission of assassinating the dragon by the deity.[9][4] According to another yukar, Okikurmi with his incantations caused hail to fall, and after the cold weighed down heavily on the dragon's wings, the god cut it down with the sword.[7]
According to Ainu lore collected by the missionary John Batchelor in the 19th century, a (mythical) large serpent was blamed as "the immediate cause of wasps and stinging ants".[10] He also relates the tale about a large female serpent that tried to entice a hero, and cursed him with a 1,000 year-old longevity after being shunned.[10]
It has been stated that the "[Ainu] dragons are sometimes companion spirits of shamanesses",[4] shamanesses being commonly referred to as miko by Japanese sources. In the foregoing example of the dragon god that took spiritual possession of a miko priestess and demanded the stoking of fire to alleviate the cold, the host priestess had initially been inhabited by a spider deity, which yielded its place to the superior dragon god. The purpose for which the priestess was consulted was to divine the cause of illness for the village elder's wife at Abuta (Aputa), therefore, in terms of localization, this is also an example of §Lake Tōya lore discussed in section below.[1][11]
According to myth, the lord (nushi (主)[13]) which inhabits Lake Tōya is the serpent-bodied being.[7] The hoyau of Lake Tōya were held to be menacing demonic deity generally, but at times could provide blessing, and be a sort of guardian deity. Specifically, when the Hōsōshin (smallpox deity) descended upon Abuta (now Tōyako town) and caused smallpox to spread, the people fled to the shores of Lake Tōya, and the hoyau with its horrible stench dispelled the Hōsōshin, saving the townsfolk.[7] Some say that the hoyau of the lake is closer to a winged turtle than a dragon,[3][14][f] and when an epidemic strikes, the local folk would offer sake spirits to the hoyau and to the Yke-usekur (??) (transliterated into Japanese as Ikeeuseguru (イケエウセグル)), the mountain spirit of Mt. Usu (有珠山), thus praying for the disease to subside.[3][14][g]
Antoine, 1st comte de Noailles (4 September 1504 – 11 March 1563) became admiral of France, and was ambassador in England for three years, 1553–1556, maintaining a gallant but unsuccessful rivalry with the Spanish ambassador, Simon Renard.
Antoine was the eldest of three brothers who served as French diplomats, three of the 19 children of Louis de Noailles and Catherine de Pierre-Buffière.[1] His brothers Gilles and François were clergymen and diplomats.[2]
His career started at the age of 25 with a trip with Francis de la Tour, Viscount of Turenne, to Spain to arrange the marriage of Francis I of France with Eleanor of Austria, and he signed the final marriage contract. He then helped in the Italian wars and two missions to Scotland in 1548.[3] Noailles helped to equip the ships at Brest and Le Havre which sailed to Scotland to carry Mary, Queen of Scots from Dumbarton.[4]
Antoine de Noailles came to London on 30 April 1553 and served as ambassador, as a replacement for his cousin, René de Laval de Boisdauphin, until 4 June 1556. After the death of Edward VI of England, he found himself to be a rival of the Imperial ambassador Simon Renard, who was more in the favour of Mary I of England and her government.[5]
France was an ally of Scotland by the long celebrated Auld Alliance, and Noailles was a friend of the diplomat and soldier Henri Cleutin, sieur d'Oysel, who served Mary of Guise, who would become the Regent of Scotland in 1554. Noailles and Cleutin travelled to New Hall to meet Mary I on 29 July 1553. Cleutin returned to Edinburgh, and Noailles assured the Constable of France, Anne de Montmorency, that he would keep Cleutin informed of developments in London.[6]
Noailles discovered that the Earl of Lennox and his wife Margaret Douglas had plans to obtain the Regency of Scotland, but Mary would not let her favourites return to Scotland to canvas support from Archibald Douglas, 6th Earl of Angus.[7] He sent news to Guise and Cleutin in Scotland including the fall of Vercelli in Piedmont and the death of Şehzade Mustafa, a son of Suleiman the Magnificent.[8] In December 1553, Noailles discussed the issues of the Scottish border with William Kirkcaldy of Grange, and understood that the financing of some French troops in Scotland was partly the responsibility of an Italian banker Timothy Cagnioli who kept an account of the expenses of the soldiers.[9] In January 1554, Noailles sent news of the negotiations for the marriage of Mary I to Philip of Spain to Mary of Guise in Scotland.[10]
Noailles described the costume worn at Mary's court, in French style with wide sleeves and rich fabrics, which he claimed was in contrast to the fashion in the time of Edward VI, which had been influenced by religious considerations which he called "superstitions".[11] He did not participate in her Royal Entry to London on 3 August and remained (with Henri Cleutin) in his lodging at the Charterhouse. According to Renard, Noailles observed some of the proceedings from his window, and was able to provide a description of the procession. Renard noted that Mary wore violet velvet, with skirts and sleeves embroidered with gold.[12]
Noailes provided a "relation" of the coronation entry on 30 September, which included two men dressed to represent to Duchies of Gascon and Normandy. Noailles wrote that Mary wore silver and her litter and horses were draped with cloth of gold. Elizabeth and Anne of Cleves also wore silver. Women of court dressed in French style in silver and gold rode with horses covered with crimson "cramoisy" velvet (this detail appears to differ in other accounts). He also provided a description of the coronation itself and the banquet in Westminster Hall.[13]
According to Noailles, the Lady Elizabeth refused or avoided wear jewels which her sister gave her at the time of her coronation.[14] In September 1553, Noailles wrote to Henry II of France and Catherine de' Medici that Mary delighted in clothes and would appreciate gifts of costume including "crespes, collets, manches et sembables petites choses", head dresses, collars, sleeves and other suchlike small things. He also suggested an exchange of portraits.[15] He also wrote to Mary of Guise about the new fashions and excess in dress at the English court, particularly the brightly coloured costumes and rich fabrics now worn by older women and the embroidered hose worn by male courtiers.[16]
Noailles came to depend on informers and spies. These included; a French painter at court known as "Nicholas"; one of Mary's chamberers; an exiled Scottish physician, Michael Durand or Durham, who had attended James V of Scotland in 1542 and came to be suspected of poisoning him, and had been imprisoned in Edinburgh Castle.[17]
An exiled French soldier, Jean de Fontenay, sieur de Berteville, who had fought against the Scots at the battle of Pinkie,[18] introduced Antoine de Noailles to Sir Henry Dudley, a conspirator against Mary I.[19] Susan Clarencieux, one of Mary's servants, told Noailles of doubts that Queen Mary was pregnant in 1555. Noailles came to believe that Mary's phantom pregnancy in 1555 was caused by a cyst or tumour.[20]
In January 1554, Mary I assured Noailles that her marriage would not change her commitment to existing peace treaties with France,[21] and he passed this assurance to France's allies in Scotland.[22] According to Hugues Cousin le Vieux, a courtier and quartermaster at the Imperial court, Noailles was prominent in orchestrating opposition to the marriage and fomenting rebellion.[23]
Noailles and Henri Cleutin had some contact with opponents to the marriage at Mary's court,[24] and the supporters of an alternative potential husband Edward Courtenay, 1st Earl of Devon,[25] and they made offers of support to conspirators involved in Wyatt's rebellion including James Croft.[26] Henry II of France sent a special envoy, La Marque, offering a fleet of ships commanded by Nicolas Durand de Villegaignon to be a presence off the coast of Devon and Cornwall.[27]
Sir John Leigh (1502–1566) was a useful contact, with court connections amongst those unhappy at the prospect of Mary's marriage to Philip of Spain.[28] A Scottish agent employed by Noailles called Broughton was said to have induced and suborned the captains of the London militia, the "Whitecoats", to desert Mary's service near Rochester.[29] A contemporary writer, John Proctor, described the captains changing sides at Hospital Hill at Strood.[30]
Noailles thought the executions of Wyatt's supporters in February 1554 after the rebellion failed would be counter-productive for the Spanish marriage plans, and came to realise that the opposition had been silenced.[31] Wyatt had implicated Cleutin in his confession.[32] In France, the Constable Montmorency had to defend to the activities of Noailles and Cleutin to the English ambassador Nicholas Wotton.[33] In April, Noailles still thought that French funding might rebuild an opposition. On 7 May, Noailles spoke to Mary and her council about the fleet of ships that would bring Philip as a potential threat to French shipping, and the meeting concluded with angry words on both sides, and the impression that the French intended war. Noailles had to offer apologies and retractions, but continued to try and find means to hinder the wedding plans.[34]
Noailles tried to maintain the favour of the Lady Elizabeth, who had recently been released from the Tower of London. Noailles sent her a gift of apples, but his messenger was arrested at Richmond Palace.[35]
His youngest brother, Gilles de Noailles, served as a diplomatic agent. Their brother François de Noailles was ambassador in London from 6 November 1556 to 21 June 1557. A selection of their diplomatic correspondence was published in five volumes by René Aubert de Vertot in 1763 as Ambassades de Messieurs Noailles en Angleterre.[36]
His wife was Jeanne de Gontaut, who following his death, became a lady-in-waiting to Catherine de Medici.[37]
Attribution:

This biography of a French peer or noble is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
North Worcestershire was a county constituency in the county of Worcestershire, which returned one Member of Parliament (MP) to the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, elected by the first past the post voting system.
It was created by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 for the 1885 general election. The constituency was abolished for the 1918 general election.
The constituency included the Sessional Divisions of Halesowen and Oldbury, the Municipal Borough of Dudley, and the parishes of Cradley, Lutley, Lye, 
and Northfield.[1]
General Election 1914–15:
Another General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by July 1914, the following candidates had been selected;
UEIT - Universal Electronic Test Chart (russian: УЭИТ - Универсальная электронная испытательная таблица) is a Soviet/Russian test card, designed to test TVs operating in the analogue SECAM colour standard.[1][2][3]
UEIT was developed by N. G. Deryugin and V. A. Minaev at the NII Radio Scientific Research Institute as the successor to the monochrome ТИТ-0249 test card[4] with the informal name of "Colour Prevention Table" (TCP).[5][6][7] This was the second attempt by the Soviets to create a colour test card, since previous efforts undertaken in 1954 (the ТИТ-0154 test card)[8] in conjunction with the early prototype NIIR/SECAM IV colour television system, were abandoned in favour or regular SECAM III B. On the golden jubilee year of the October Revolution in 1967, colour broadcasts debuted in both Moscow and Leningrad (now Saint Petersburg). 
Experimental broadcasts using the first three prototype versions of the UEIT (one of which was a modification of the Hungarian HTV TR.0782 test card;[9] but all were collectively referred to as UEIT-1) began from the Ostankino Tower transmitter in 1970, with results being used to create the current version of the test pattern. This new version, called UEIT-2, was introduced in 1971 with several GOST-approved modifications up to 1986, and was used on terrestrial broadcast and on point-to-point links throughout the Soviet Union.[10]
The prototypes and current version of the UEIT were used on Soviet television services: six national channels ("First Programme", All Union Programme, Moscow Programme, Fourth Programme, Fifth Programme and the Sixth Programme) and Third Programme/regional stations.[11] It was also used in some Soviet Republics and allied countries like the Estonian SSR,[12] Latvian SSR,[13] Lithuanian SSR,[14] Kirghiz SSR, Byelorussian SSR, Ukrainian SSR,[15] Kazakh SSR, Tajik SSR and the Georgian SSR, as well as Cuba. It continued to be used on post-Soviet times in Russia and some former Soviet republics and allies.[16][17][18][19]
The card was replaced by digital versions with the switch to digital broadcasting in Russia using the DVB-T2 standard by late-2019.[20][21]
The UEIT allowed to adjust image geometry and picture settings such as brightness, contrast and colour saturation. Other more technical adjustments were also possible, such as cathode-ray tube focus and raster distortions.
The card features the following elements:
Bayya Yegnanarayana is an INSA Senior Scientist at International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Hyderabad, Telangana, India. He is an eminent professor and is known for his contributions in Digital Signal Processing, Speech Signal Processing, Artificial Neural Networks and related areas. He has guided about 39 PhD theses, 43 MS theses and 65 MTech projects. He was the General Chair for the international conference, INTERSPEECH 2018, held at Hyderabad. He also holds the positions as Distinguished Professor, IIT Hyderabad and an Adjunct Faculty, IIT Tirupati. 
Yegnanarayana was born on January 9, 1944, in Rajahmundry, Andhra Pradesh, India. He obtained his BSc degree from Andhra University, Waltair, in 1961. Then BE in 1964, ME in 1966, and PhD in 1974, from Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bangalore.
1. Honorary Fellow of AP Akademi of Sciences, 2016
2. Fellow of International Speech Communication Association (ISCA), 2014
3. INSA The Syed Hussain Zaheer Medal, 2014
4. Life Fellow of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)(USA), 2013
5. IISc Distinguished Alumnus Award, 2013
6. INAE Professor S. N. Mitra Memorial Award, 2006
7. Fellow of Indian Academy of Sciences, 2004
8. Fellow of Indian National Science Academy, 1999
9. 3rd IETE Professor S. V. C. Aiya Memorial Award, 1996
10. Fellow of Indian National Academy of Engineering, 1995
• INSA Senior Scientist, International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad, 2017–present
• Emeritus Professor, BITS-Pilani Hyderabad campus, 2016-2017
• Institute Professor, International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad, 2012-2016
• Professor and Microsoft Chair, International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad, 2006-2012
• Head, Dept. of CS & E, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Feb. 1985 - Nov. 1989
• Professor, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, 1980-2006
• Visiting Scientist, ISRO, Bangalore, July-Dec. 1980
• Assistant Professor, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, 1974-1978
• Lecturer, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, 1967-1974
• Sr. Research Assistant, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, 1966-1967
• Center for Speech Technology Research, CSTR, Edinburgh, UK, May 2011
• Center for Speech Technology Research, CSTR, Edinburgh, UK, Sep. 2009
• Center for Speech Technology Research, CSTR, Edinburgh, UK, June 2008
• IDIAP research institute, Switzerland, June–July 2007
• University of Maryland, College Park, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 2004
• Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Visiting Professor, May–July 2003
• University of Maryland, College Park, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 2002
• University of Maryland, College Park, USA, Visiting Professor, May–June 2001
• Oregon Graduate Institute, Portland, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 1999
• Oregon Graduate Institute, Portland, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 1998
• Oregon Graduate Institute, Portland, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 1997
• Oregon Graduate Institute, Portland, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 1996
• Eindhoven Tech. Univ., The Netherlands, Visiting Professor, July 1994 - Jan. 1995
• Rutger's University, USA, Visiting Professor, June 1994
• LIMSI, University of Paris, Orsay, France, Visiting Professor, May 1994
• Eindhoven Tech. Univ., The Netherlands, Visiting Professor, May–June 1992
• US West, Boulder, CO, USA, visiting scientist, May–June 1991
• University of Bremen, Germany, visiting scientist, May 1990
• Center for Speech Technology Research (CSTR), Edinburgh, UK, Visiting Professor, Sept. 1989
• University of Florida, Gainesville, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 1984
• University of Florida, Gainesville, USA, Visiting Professor, May–July 1983
• CS Dept., Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA, Visiting Associate Professor, 1977-1980
1. Guest Editor, Sadhana, Academy Proceedings in Engineering Sciences, Special issue on Speech Communication and Signal Processing, Indian Academy of Sciences, Springer (ISSN 0256-2499), Vol.36, Number 5, October 2011.
2. International Speech Communication Association (ISCA)
3. IEEE (USA)
4. IETE (India)
5. Acoustical Society of India (India)
6. Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Speech & Audio Processing (2003-2006)
• Speech Technology
• Soft Computing
• Computing with ANN
• Digital Signal Processing
• Signals and Systems
• Principles of Communication
• Digital Signal Processing
• Speech
• Computer Vision
• Artificial Neural Networks
1. PR Reddy, K Sri Rama Murty and B. Yegnanarayana, Representation Learning for Spoken Term Detection, in Amita Pal and Sankar K Pal (Eds.), Pattern Recognition and Big Data, World Scientific Publishing, Oct. 2016
2. P. Gangamohan, Sudarsana Reddy Kadiri, and B. Yegnanarayana, Analysis of Emotional Speech - A Review, in Anna Esposito and Lakhmi C. Jain (Eds.), Toward Robotic Socially Believable Behaving Systems, Vol. I, Chap. 11, Springer International Publishing, pp. 205–238, Mar. 2016.
3. B. Yegnanarayana (Ed.), Speech Communication and Signal Processing, Special issue of Sadhana, Academy Proceedings in Engineering Sciences, Indian Academy of Sciences and Springer, Vol. 36, No. 5, Oct. 2011.
4. L. Rabiner, B-H. Juang, and B. Yegnanarayana, Fundamentals of speech recognition, Pearson Education Inc., Delhi (Indian Subcontinent Adaptation), 2009.
5. B. Yegnanarayana, C. Chandra Sekhar, S. Palanivel, V. Suresh, Anil Kumar Sao and Dhananjaya N., Issues in the Development of an Audio-Video based Person Authentication System, in Jana Dittmann, Claus Vielhauer and Jan Hansen (Eds.), New Advances in Multimedia Security, Biometrics, Watermarking and Cultural Aspects, pp. 53–76, Logos Verlag Berlin, Berlin, 2006.
6. S. V. Gangashetty, C. Chandra Sekhar, and B. Yegnanarayana, Spotting Multilingual Consonant-Vowel Units of Speech using Neural Network Models, in Marcos Fundez-Zanuy, ... (Eds.), Nonlinear Analyses and Algorithms for Speech Processing (Revised Selected Papers from International Conference on Non-linear Speech Processing, NOLISP 2005, Barcelona, Spain, April 19–22) (LNAI Vol. 3817, ISBN 3-540-31257-9), pp. 303–317, Springer Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, 2005.
7. B. Yegnanarayana, Suryakanth V. Gangashetty, and S. Palanivel, Autoassociative Neural Network Models for Pattern Recognition Tasks in Speech and Image, in Ashish Ghosh and Sankar K. Pal (Eds.), Soft Computing Approach to Pattern Recognition and Image Processing, World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd., Singapore, 2002.
8. B. Yegnanarayana and C. Chandra Sekhar, Pattern Recognition Issues in Speech Processing, in Sankar K. Pal, and Amita Pal (Eds.), Pattern Recognition from Classical to Modern Approaches, World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd., Singapore, 2001.
9. B. Yegnanarayana and S. Ramesh, Solution Manual to Artificial Neural Networks by B. Yegnanarayana, New Delhi, Prentice-Hall of India, 2001.
10. B. Yegnanarayana and M. Narendranath, Neural Networks, Voice Conversion, in S. Katagiri (Ed.), Handbook of Neural Networks for Speech Processing, Artech House Inc., Massachusetts, 2000.
11. Manish Sarkar and B. Yegnanarayana, Application of Fuzzy-Rough Sets in Modular Neural Networks, in S. K. Pal and A. Skowron (Eds.), Rough Fuzzy Hybridization: A New Trend in Decision Making, Springer-Verlag Singapore Pte. Ltd., 1999.
12. [Book] B. Yegnanarayana, Artificial Neural Networks, New Delhi, Prentice-Hall of India, 1999.
13. B. Yegnanarayana, M. Narendranath and S. Rajendran, Voice Conversion, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, September 1995.
14. B. Yegnanarayana, N. Sudha, P.P. Raghu and C. Chandra Sekhar, Artificial Neural Networks for Classification of Sonar Targets, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, August 1995.
15. P. P. Raghu, R. Poongodi and B. Yegnanarayana, Application of Artificial Neural Networks in Remote Sensing, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, November 1995.
16. B. Yegnanarayana and V. R. Ramachandran, "Group Delay Processing of Speech Signals in Martin Cooke", Steve Beet and Malcom Crawford (Eds.), Visual Representations of Speech Signal, John Wiley and Sons Ltd., 1993.
17. B. Yegnanarayana et al., Proceedings of Workshop on Speech Technology, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, December 1992.
18. B. Yegnanarayana et al., Tutorial on Speech Technology, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, December 1992.
19. B. Yegnanarayana, R. Ramaseshan and A. Ravichandran, Studies in Sensor Array Imaging, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, November 1992.
20. V. V. S. Sarma, N. Viswanadham, B. Yegnanarayana and B. L. Deekshatulu, Artificial Intelligence and Expert System Technologies in the Indian Context, vol.1 & 2, Tata McGraw-Hill, 1991.
21. B. Yegnanarayana and P. V. S. Rao (Eds.), Special issue on Speech Processing, JIETE, vol.34, no.1, Jan-Feb 1988.
Eduard Heinrich Rudolph David (11 June 1863 – 24 December 1930) was a German politician. He was an important figure in the history of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) and of the German political labour movement. After the German Revolution of 1918–19 he was a Minister without portfolio in the government of Philipp Scheidemann, before becoming Minister of the Interior in June 1919 in the succeeding government headed by Gustav Bauer. David remained in that position until October of that year.
David was also briefly the first president of the Weimar National Assembly which drew up the Weimar Constitution and ratified the Treaty of Versailles in 1919.
Eduard David was born on 11 June 1863 in Ediger/Mosel as the son of Johann Heinrich David, a Prussian civil servant, and his wife Wilhelmine Elisabeth (née Werner).[1]
After completing a four-year commercial apprenticeship (kaufmännische Lehre), David studied at the university at Giessen where he was introduced to socialist ideals. He worked as a teacher at a gymnasium and establishing a newspaper, the Mitteldeutsche Sonntagszeitung, in 1893. David's support for the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) led to his dismissal from the civil service in 1894.[1]
David was married twice. In 1896, he married Gertrud Swiderski (one daughter) and in 1911 Hermine Schmidt (one son).[1]
In the 1890s, David became a proponent of agricultural policies favouring small holdings, arguing for their viability in a series of articles in the Sozialdemokrat in August and September 1894. David argued against the traditional Marxist idea that small landholdings would increasingly be replaced by large estates, marking David as among the first Revisionists in his party.[1]
This journalism on the agrarian question would later be expanded into his major book-length work, Sozialismus und Landwirtschaft (Socialism and Agriculture), in 1903.
From 1896, David was a member of the Landtag of Hesse and after 1903 a member of the Reichstag for the SPD. He was one of the leading politicians of the "Majority" SPD when the party split during the First World War and was instrumental in framing his party's policy stand on the war.[1]
In October 1918, when the SPD became part of the Imperial government for the first time under the new chancellor Max von Baden, David became Under Secretary at the Foreign Office.[1]
In February 1919, David was elected president of the new National Assembly,[1] but as part of a deal establishing the first democratically elected government, the Scheidemann cabinet, he relinquished that post in favour of Constantin Fehrenbach (Centre Party) and became Minister without Portfolio under the new Ministerpräsident, Philipp Scheidemann (SPD).
After Scheidemann's cabinet resigned in June 1919 in protest over the stipulations of the Treaty of Versailles, a new government was formed by Gustav Bauer (SPD) and David became Reichsminister des Innern (Minister of the Interior), a position he held from 21 June to 4 October 1919.[1] In early October, the German Democratic Party (DDP) which had left the coalition government in June rejoined, thus reestablishing the Weimar Coalition of SPD, DDP and Centre Party. Erich Koch-Weser (DDP) took over as Minister of the Interior and David once again was Minister without Portfolio. He retained this position in the first cabinet of Hermann Müller, who formed the new government when the Cabinet Bauer resigned in March 1920.[1]
In 1922, David was appointed Reichsbevollmächtigter in Hesse and from 1923 to 1927 he taught political sciences at what was then the Technische Hochschule Darmstadt. He died on 24 December 1930 in Berlin.[1]
Eduard David died in Berlin on December 24, 1930.
David is today considered a key figure in the history of the political labour movement in Germany as he influenced the development of the SPD in the pre-World War I period as one of the leading advocates of reformist policies.[1]
Back from the Dead is the fifth album by American death metal band Obituary. It was released on April 22, 1997. This was the band's final album before their six-year breakup from 1997 to 2003.
Back from the Dead was the first Obituary album not produced by longtime contributor Scott Burns. Some copies of the album also include an additional CD-ROM Data containing videos, live footage and animation.
All tracks written and composed by Obituary, unless otherwise stated.
Verkiai Calvary or Vilnius Calvary is the second oldest calvary in Lithuania after Žemaičių Kalvarija. It is located in Verkiai, a neighborhood of Vilnius, capital of Lithuania. The calvary was built in 1662–69 as a sign of gratitude for the victory in the Second Northern War (1655–60).[1] The calvary includes 20 brick chapels, seven wooden and one brick gate, and one bridge with a wooden chapel.[2] The path ends at the Church of the Discovery of the Holy Cross. In 1962 all chapels, except four closest to the church, were destroyed by the Soviet authorities. The calvary was reconstructed in 1990–2002.
The calvary has 35 stations:[3]
54°43′51″N 25°17′14″E﻿ / ﻿54.73083°N 25.28722°E﻿ / 54.73083; 25.28722
Swaay is the debut extended play by American band DNCE. It was released through Republic Records on October 23, 2015. Consisting of four songs, two were produced by Mattman & Robin and two were produced by Ilya. The EP was supported by two singles, "Cake by the Ocean" and "Toothbrush".
Kyle Anderson of Entertainment Weekly said of lead singer Joe Jonas on the record "It's still too early to tell whether or not Joe can join Nick in the upper echelon, but the debut EP by his new combo DNCE is a solid step in the right direction." He also said the group "have a spry, playful chemistry" on the EP and that "they've absolutely got the chops and the instincts to carve out a funky, buoyant place on pop radio".[1] Richard Baxter of Popology Now described lead single "Cake by the Ocean" as "one of the quirkiest pop songs of the year", but also stated that compared to the rest of the record it was "just a little appetizer for what the band has been working on". He concluded by saying that "All in all, 'Swaay' provides just enough to leave us wanting more".[2]
"Cake by the Ocean" was released as the EP's lead single on September 18, 2015. It reached a peak of number nine on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States and charted moderately in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand.[3][4][5] "Toothbrush" was released as the EP's second and final single to contemporary hit radio on May 17, 2016.[6]

‡ Sales+streaming figures based on certification alone.
Marguerite (April 24, 1920 – October 27, 1945) was an American Thoroughbred racemare owned by Belair Stud who had to be retired after only one start but who established her place in racing history as the dam of four significant runners.[1]
A 1946 Daily Racing Form article lamented the fact that when a sire of one or more outstanding runners dies there will be much written about that stallion in country's all over the world. Conversely, when a mare who has produced similar such successful offspring, scant little will be reported on her accomplishment. That same article recounted a story by the sports Editor of the Atlanta Journal about his visit to Claiborne Farm and the gravesite of Marguerite. The Daily Racing Form commented that Arthur Hancock telling the reporter he was saving a space next to her for Sir Gallahad III was "one of the most romantic stories in the annals of the world's turf".[2]
Marguerite was purchased as a yearling by William Woodward at a 1921 Saratoga sale.[3] Her sire was Celt, winner of the 1907 Junior Champion Stakes and the 1908 Brooklyn Handicap who would be the Leading sire in North America in 1921. Celt was a son of the great Commando, an American Horse of the Year and U.S. Racing Hall of Fame inductee. Commando also sired Hall of Fame champions Colin and Peter Pan. Marguerite's dam was the English mare Fairy Ray, a daughter of Radium who was a successful runner for Leopold de Rothschild. Dam Fairy Ray also produced the multiple stakes winning colt Cloudland (1922) by Wrack.
The most successful of Marguerite's progeny were:
After 1925, Marguerite was moved to Hancock's Claiborne Farm in Kentucky, where all her future foals were born. Three of Marguerite's best progeny were sired by Sir Gallahad III, a French-bred stallion that had been bought in 1926 by an American syndicate when standing at stud for owner Jefferson Davis Cohn at his Haras du Bois-Roussel near Alençon in Normandy, France. The syndicate was made up of  Robert A. Fairbairn, William Woodward Sr., Marshall Field III, and Arthur B. Hancock.
Following a story by Ed Danforth, sports Editor of the Atlanta Journal, about his visit to Claiborne Farm and the gravesite of Marguerite, the Daily Racing Form commented that Arthur Hancock's saying that he was saving a space next to her for Sir Gallahad III was "one of the most romantic stories in the annals of the world's turf".[13]
In 1942 the Maryland Jockey Club announced there would be a new race to be inaugurated in 1945 for two-year-old fillies that would be named in honor of Marguerite. The race was created as a companion event to the Pimlico Futurity and declared to be one of the richest of its kind in the United States.[14]
The final running of the Marguerite Stakes took place on November 27, 1965 and was won by Harbor View Farm's Swift Lady.[15]
Lydia Aimée Vololona Rahantasoa is a Malagasy politician. A member of the National Assembly of Madagascar, she was elected as a member of the Tiako I Madagasikara party; she represents the constituency of Manjakandriana.
She had been a member of parliament in 2011.[1]
In 2014 she was reelected for the Movansy Ravalomanana.[2]
She had been Minister of Technical Education and Vocational Training under the Ntsay government from June 2018 - January 2019.[3]
This article about a Malagasy politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Cornelis Nicolaas Hin (6 October 1869 – 21 October 1944) was a sailor from the Netherlands, who represented his native country at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Ostend, Belgium.[1]
During the second race one of the marks was drifting and the race was abandoned. Since the organizers did not have the time to re-sail the race that week the two remaining races were rescheduled for September 3 of that year. Since both contenders were Dutch, the organizers requested the Dutch Olympic Committee to organize the race in The Netherlands.
With his son Johan Hin as crew Hin won the first race. His son Frans Hin crewed the remaining races in The Netherlands on the Buiten IJ, in front of Durgerdam near Amsterdam. Hin took the gold over the combined series with his boat Beatrijs III.[2]
This biographical article related to yacht racing in the Netherlands is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a Dutch Olympic medalist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
PlayOK, also known as kurnik ("chicken coop"), is a website of classic board and card games to play online against live opponents in real-time. It was created in 2001 by Marek Futrega, and was initially a Polish-only website. As of early 2005 it supported over 30 board and card games, and the site is available in 33 languages so far.
It is the most popular on-line board game website in Poland.
Since 7 October 2004 all game rules at Kurnik's web pages are available under the Creative Commons attribution-noncommercial licence.
Other interesting technical solutions:
According to a gemiusTraffic research, in December 2004 the website was visited by 1.2 million unique users. The Polish version has about 100.000 registered users and, as of January 2007, an Alexa Internet ranking of around 1,200.[3]
Until 1 May 2002 Scrabble was also available at Kurnik, under the name Szkrable. After a threat of legal action from Cronix, the company with the rights to Internet versions of the game, Kurnik developed a similar game called "Literaxx" (Literaki ;-) in Polish), which differed from Scrabble only because of a different board, but Cronix considered these changes too minor for it not to be a copyright violation. Marek Futrega then developed Literaki ;-) into a new word-based game with different rules than Scrabble. The Literaki ;-) rules are public domain. Similarly, a free equivalent of Monopoly, "Blogpoly" (Netopol in Polish) is also available.
As of April 5, 2008, Kurnik.org changed its name to playok.com.
On February 27, 2022, to support Ukraine, which was invaded by Russia, playok.com marked the Ukrainian flag on its homepage.[4]
Kurnik is also a host for the biggest free software dictionary available for the Polish language.  Collaboratively developed, it was initially meant to be just a tool to help validate moves in word-based games, but it subsequently replaced basically all other freely available dictionaries used in free software projects.  The dictionary is dual-licensed under cc-sa and the GPL.
Frederick John "Frock" Lowrey (August 12, 1902 – January 24, 1968) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played 54 games in the National Hockey League for the Pittsburgh Pirates and Montreal Maroons. Fred is the brother of former NHL players Eddie and Gerry Lowrey. Three other brothers – Tom, Frank and Bill – played with lower level teams in the Ottawa City Hockey League.
This biographical article relating to a Canadian ice hockey defenceman born in the 1900s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Lidia Ramírez (born 27 July 1948) is a Mexican former swimmer. She competed in four events at the 1968 Summer Olympics.[1]
This biographical article related to a Mexican swimmer is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
USS Glacier (AF-4) was a Glacier-class stores ship acquired by the U.S. Navy for use in the Spanish–American War. She served again during World War I in the dangerous North Atlantic Ocean, delivering general goods and ammunition to American Expeditionary Force troops in Europe.
The first Navy ship to be named Glacier was built as the merchant ship, SS Port Chalmers in 1891 by J.L. Thompson & Son, Sunderland, England; purchased from the Federal Line, London, July 1898; commissioned at New York 5 July 1898, Comdr. J. P. Merrill, USN, commanding; had her name changed to USS Delmonico 6 July 1898, and to USS Glacier 6 days later.
Glacier departed Hampton Roads 15 August, and for the following 5 months she supplied ice, meat, and stores to ships of the North Atlantic Fleet operating in the West Indies during the Spanish–American War. Sailing from San Juan, Puerto Rico, 3 January 1899, she arrived at New York 1 week later, and decommissioned there 6 March.
Glacier recommissioned at New York 31 March 1899, assigned to the Asiatic Station, she stood out of Hampton Roads 24 May and arrived 15 July at Manila Bay via the Mediterranean and Suez Canal. Operating in the Philippines during these troubled years, she supplied U.S. Army and Navy forces with ice, meat, and stores; delivered stores to reconstructed gunboats at Hong Kong; and transported large quantities of meat and provisions from Australia to Manila. Sailing out of Manila Bay 22 April 1903, Glacier arrived at Norfolk, Virginia, 29 June, and decommissioned there 1 August.
Recommissioning there 15 December, she loaded supplies and provisions at New York and delivered her cargo to ships at Guantanamo, Pensacola, Florida, and the Panama Canal Zone (14 February – 7 July 1904). Arriving at Boston, Massachusetts, 17 July, Glacier decommissioned there on the 30th and, following repairs, recommissioned 15 September and fitted out for special duty.
Glacier became a unit of the Special Service Squadron composed of Brutus (AC-15), Caesar (AC-16), and Potomac (AT-50), assigned to tow the floating dry dock Dewey (YFD-1) from Sparrows Point, Maryland, to the Philippines. Departing Solomons, Maryland, on the Patuxent River 28 December 1905, the squadron arrived at Olongapo, Philippines, via Las Palmas in the Canaries, Port Said, Suez, and Singapore, 10 July 1906. Following delivery of the dock, Glacier proceeded to Cavite for discharge of cargo and repairs. She stood out of Cavite 16 August, and arrived at Boston, Massachusetts, 14 November via the Suez Canal, the Mediterranean, and New York.
Departing Boston 4 January 1907, Glacier became a unit of the Atlantic Fleet, and engaged in supplying fresh provisions to ships operating in the Atlantic and Caribbean area until returning to New York 14 October.
As a storeship, she departed New York 5 December and accompanied the Atlantic Fleet on its good will and training cruise to the Pacific, stopping at various ports in the Caribbean, South America, and Mexico en route. Arriving 14 April 1908 at San Francisco, Glacier cruised with the fleet on the California coast until departing San Francisco, California, 29 June. She continued as supply ship to the Atlantic Fleet on its famous voyage around the world, visiting Honolulu, the Fiji Islands, New Zealand, Australia, and the Philippines. On 21 October, while at Cavite, she became detached from the Atlantic Fleet and assigned to the Pacific Fleet in her former capacity. The Commander in Chief of the Atlantic Fleet reports in 1908:
Loading provisions at Manila and Sydney, Australia (10 November-5 December), Glacier joined the U.S. Pacific Fleet at Talcahuano, Chile, 1 January 1909, and accompanied the fleet on a cruise to South and Central American ports and to Magdalena Bay. They arrived at Mare Island 2 June for repairs.
Continuing in her service as supply ship to the Pacific Fleet until 1918, Glacier was employed in delivering fresh provisions, stores, ammunition, target material, and mail; transporting personnel; and towing target rafts and coal barges. Her principal area of operations was on the U.S. West Coast, Mexico, and Central America. She made two trips to Asiatic waters (22 September 1909 – 14 February 1910 and 8 April – 17 August 1912) to supply ships operating in the Hawaiian area, the Philippines, and the China and Japan coasts. From 1913 to 1917 she operated between California and Mexico and Nicaragua, delivering stores, mail and men to the Fleet, investigating conditions at Mexican ports, and giving refuge to United States and other foreign citizens during the unsettled conditions in Mexico. She loaded stores, fresh meats, and ammunition at San Francisco 9 to 14 May 1917, arrived 30 June at Rio de Janeiro and, through March 1918, delivered her cargo to ships operating on the east coast of South America.
Departing Rio de Janeiro 2 April, Glacier arrived at New York on the 24th, and became assigned to NOTS. As a Naval Overseas Transport Ship, she made three trips to Europe carrying fresh meats and general stores to naval forces operating in European waters. The first two trips were made from New York to the British Isles, 2 June-26 July 1918 and 13 August-20 October 1918, and the third trip from New York to Brest, 4 November 1918 – 4 January 1919, returning to Norfolk, Virginia, with a cargo of aviation material and high explosives for New York.
Standing in at New York 10 January 1919, she was detached from NOTS and assigned to the Train Squadron, Atlantic Fleet. From 6 May to 25 June 1919, she issued stores to the Atlantic Fleet and engaged in target practice with the fleet on the East Coast.
Glacier departed New York 24 July, arrived 17 August at San Pedro, California, and became attached to the Train Squadron, Pacific Fleet. Until 1921 she was engaged in transporting stores, ammunition, and personnel to ships operating off the California coast and Panama Canal Zone area.
Arriving 31 October 1921 at Mare Island, Glacier decommissioned there 6 March 1922 and was sold 17 August to Barde Steel & Machinery Co., Seattle, Washington, for $22,000.
The Market Theatre, based in the downtown bohemian suburb of Newtown in Johannesburg, South Africa, was opened in 1976, operating as an independent, anti-racist theatre during the country's apartheid regime. It was named after a fruit and vegetable market that was previously located there. It was also known as the Old Indian Market or the Newtown Market, which closed after 60 years.[1] The Market Theatre was renamed John Kani Theatre in 2014 after the renowned South African stage actor John Kani.[2]
In 1974, a group of theatre people formed The Company. The founders included Mannie Manim and the late Barney Simon. They began fundraising to restore the neglected complex that housed the old produce market in downtown Johannesburg.
The original steel structure had been shipped from Britain and constructed on site. The steel arches and cathedral-like dome built in 1913 that housed the Indian Fruit Market were considered one of the most important pieces of organic architecture in South Africa. On Sundays, the main hall of the complex was used for symphony concerts.
Renovation began, with much of the work being done by the artists themselves. Today most of the original Edwardian architecture remains, as do a number of the original
signs. It houses both Museum Africa and The Market Theatre complex.
By the 1970s there was heavy international pressure for South Africa to reform its apartheid laws. It was during this turbulent time, on 21 June 1976, that the Market Theatre opened its doors with Barney Simon as its artistic director. The first production, under his direction, was The Seagull by Anton Chekhov with Sandra Prinsloo in the cast . In time the non-racial Market Theatre became known internationally as the "Theatre of the Struggle." It was one of the few places in the 1980s that blacks and whites could mix on equal terms.
"The strength and truth of that conviction was acknowledged(...)In providing a voice to the voiceless, The Market Theatre did not forego artistic excellence, but, rather, made a point of it."[3]
A multitude of anti-apartheid plays were staged, including Reza de Wet's multi award-winning, African Gothic, and Woza Albert, Asinamali, Bopha, Sophiatown, You Strike The Woman, You Strike A Rock, Born in the RSA and Black Dog – Inj’emnyama. The Market Theatre's cultural contribution to South Africa's emergence as a democracy in 1994 is significant.[4][5]
In 1994 the Market Theatre was the recipient of the American Jujamcyn Award to honour a South African theatre organisation that had made an outstanding contribution to the development of creative talent in the history of the country's theatre. During its history, the Market Theatre has received 21 international awards and over 300 South African awards, which include Fleur du Cap and Naledi Theatre Awards.
The Market Theatre complex houses three theatres: the Barney Simon Theatre (opened in June 1976), the Main Theatre (opened in October 1976) and the Laager Theatre (named in 1979). In addition to hosting productions, the theatres are also used for conferences, seminars, presentations and product launches.
Named after one of the co-founders of the Market Theatre, and a stalwart of the South African theatre industry, the Barney Simon Theatre was the first to open in the Market Theatre complex, while restorations to the historical building were still in progress. It has seating for 120 people.[6]
Four months after the Market Theatre opened with the staging of The Seagull, the Main Theatre opened to the public on 19 October 1976. The first production was Peter Weiss's Marat/Sade.
The Main Theatre is the largest of the three theatres of the Market Theatre complex and seats up to 387 people.
The first show to be staged in what was once a photo gallery in the Market Theatre complex was called Die Van Aardes Van Grootoor in August 1978. The theatre was named
the Laager by prominent theatre personality and social activist Pieter-Dirk Uys in 1979.
A laager, also known as a wagon fort, is a fortification made of wagons joined together, usually in a circular shape, as an improvised military camp to safeguard those taking refuge inside. Pieter then found the name Laager appropriate for he too needed a safe place to perform under the apartheid regime.
The Market Theatre complex also houses two art galleries, a jazz club, a cabaret venue,a bookshop, two restaurants (the Market Bar & Bistro and the historical Gramadoelas), a coffee bar, a theatre bar, a shopping mall, and a flea-market every Saturday.
True to its roots, the modern-day Market Theatre remains dedicated to growing and cultivating the arts in South Africa through various initiatives such as the Lab and
the Market Photo Workshop. The Market Photo Workshop is a school of photography that has been in operation for over 20 years, with a special focus on introducing the art of photography to previously disadvantaged students.
The Rockefeller Foundation provided the seed money to start the Market Theatre Laboratory, a drama school founded by Barney Simon and Dr John Kani. The Lab opened in October 1989 in a small warehouse under the highway in Goch Street Newtown, and is dedicated to developing community theatre and skills training in the arts.
From 1994, the Lab and later the Market Theatre formed a long-term partnership with the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) and Stockholm City Theatre. The Lab holds two annual festivals, the Community Theatre Festival and the Zwakala Festival.
In 2010 the Market Theatre Laboratory moved to the Bus Factory, 3 President Street, Newtown where the Market Photo Workshop is also located.
Over the years the Market Theatre hosted performances by a number of internationally acclaimed artists
including Athol Fugard. The great South African actress Yvonne Bryceland and collaborator of Athol Fugard was also involved in the evolution of the Market Theatre as a centre of theatre against apartheid[7]
In October 1987 Janet Suzman directed a multi-racial production of Othello at The Market Theatre.[8] Suzman also directed Brecht's 'Good Woman of Setzuan ' (renamed The Good Woman of Sharpeville).[9]
26°12′06″S 28°01′57″E﻿ / ﻿26.201654°S 28.032389°E﻿ / -26.201654; 28.032389
Carex flava, called hedgehog grass, is a widespread species of sedge (genus Carex), native to the northern United States, Canada, Iceland, Europe, the Atlas Mountains in Africa, the Transcaucasus area, and parts of Siberia.[2][3] It is the namesake of the Carex flava species complex.[4]
This Carex article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Heller's serotine (Afronycteris helios), formerly known as Heller's pipistrelle, is a species of vesper bat.[2] It is only found in Kenya, Somalia, Tanzania, and Uganda. 

This Vespertilionidae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Trevor Hale Enders (born December 22, 1974) is a former Major League Baseball player. Born to William Enders and Barbara (nee Frost).  Born in Milwaukee, WI.  He and his family moved to Northbrook, Illinois and then to Houston, TX when he was young.  He was a pitcher who batted right-handed, threw left-handed, and is 6 foot 1. He attended college at Houston Baptist University. Trevor played one season in the Majors as a member of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in the 2000 season. In nine career games pitched in relief, Enders had an 0-1 record in 9.1 innings pitched, allowed 14 hits and had 5 strikeouts.

This biographical article relating to an American baseball pitcher born in the 1970s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Qasr Ibrahim (Ibrahim Palace) is a historic  fort  in the north of Alqoat neighborhood, Hofuf, Al-Ahsa, Eastern Province, Saudi Arabia. It is also called the Dome Palace, AlQoat Palace or Ibrahim Castle and    is the region's  main architectural heritage site from the Ottoman period. [1] It served as a Turkish military base. [2] It was seized by King Abdul-Aziz Al Saud on April 13, 1913 (5th of First Jumada 1331 AH).
The palace was constructed with a mosque that has a dome in 1555 (963 AH). During the next century, the palace was enlarged into a castle, prison and Turkish bath. In 2019, the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage has announced that the procedures of renovation of all parts of the palace have finished. This restoration process included rebuilding the fallen parts, painting the buildings and preparing a main square for the tourism activities and festivals.[3][4]
It was built in 1556 by Ali Ibn Ahmed Ibn Lawand Al-Burayki, the Ottoman governor of the time. The castle was renovated in 1801 by the Saudi governor Ibrahim Ibn ‘Ufaysan. Several historians believe that the castle was named after him.[5]
It is considered as one of the major architectural masterpieces in Alhasa and it combines Islamic and military architecture.[2][5]
Ibrahim Palace covers an area of 16500 square meters. Moreover, it is characterized by an architectural style that blends the Islamic and military features with the traditional architecture styles of Al-Ahsa region. Those styles are exhibited in the arcs, domes and ornamental designs.
The architecture styles of the palace consist of two features:
The construction of the palace was constructed based on local materials. While its walls were made of mud mixed with straw, the ceilings were made of palm trunks, sandalwood and stones.[3]
The palace is square with a long fence and towers in the corners. The palace was provided with a group of observation windows, in which soldiers can look at the bottom of the fence.[6][4]
In 2018, Al-Ahsa Oasis became the fifth Saudi site to be registered on the UNESCO world heritage.[7] Qasr Ibrahim Mosque was included as one of the 12 sites in the Cultural Landscape of Al-Ahsa Oasis.[2][8]
25°22′44″N 49°35′12″E﻿ / ﻿25.3789°N 49.5868°E﻿ / 25.3789; 49.5868
The 2021–22 Saint Francis Red Flash men's basketball team represented Saint Francis University in the 2021–22 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Red Flash, led by eleventh-year head coach Rob Krimmel, played their home games at the DeGol Arena in Loretto, Pennsylvania as members of the Northeast Conference.
In a season limited due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the Red Flash finished the 2020–21 season 6–16, 5–13 in NEC play to finish in a tie for ninth place. Due to complications caused by the pandemic, only the top four teams were eligible to participate in the NEC tournament.[1]
Roster Last update: November 30, 2021
NEC COVID-19 policy provided that if a team could not play a conference game due to COVID-19 issues within its program, the game would be declared a forfeit and the other team would receive a conference win. However, wins related to COVID-19 do not count pursuant to NCAA policy.[2]
Source[3]
The 1992–93 Southern Africa Tour, titled as the 1992–93 FNB Tour for sponsorship reasons, was the 22nd season of the Southern Africa Tour, the main professional golf tour in South Africa since it was formed in 1971.
It was the first season in which the tour had signed a title sponsorship agreement with First National Bank, being renamed as the FNB Tour.[1]
A handful of top golfers dominated the first part of the season. Ernie Els won the first event of the season, the FNB Players Championship, by four shots over Mark McNulty.[2] David Frost won the next event, the Nedbank Million Dollar Challenge with Els finishing joint third.[3] Els returned with a victory at the next official event, the Goodyear Classic, by two shots over Retief Goosen.[4] Fijian Vijay Singh won the first event after the Christmas break, the Bell's Cup, defeating McNulty by two shots.[5] McNulty, however, came back and won the following week at the Lexington PGA Championship by one shot over a number of players, including Nick Price.[6] At the fifth official tournament, the Mount Edgecombe Trophy, Goosen won his first event of the season, defeating runner-up Price by five shots.[7] Price returned with a victory the following week at the ICL International.[8]
In the later part of the season, a number of less notable players defeated the top performers. At the seventh event, the Philips South African Open, Clinton Whitelaw was victorious by two shots over Goosen.[9] The following week, at the Hollard Royal Swazi Sun Classic, Sean Pappas defeated Els in a playoff.[10] At the final event of the season, the EVS South African Masters, Zimbabwean Tony Johnstone defeated Roger Wessels by a shot with McNulty, Els, and Goosen all several shots back.[11]
The following table lists official events during the 1992–93 season.[12][13]
The following events were sanctioned by the Southern Africa Tour, but did not carry official money, nor were wins official.
The Order of Merit was based on prize money won during the season, calculated in South African rand.[14]
Leccinum vulpinum, commonly known as the foxy bolete,[3] is a bolete fungus in the genus Leccinum that is found in Europe. It was described as new to science by Roy Watling in 1961.[4] An edible species, it grows in mycorrhizal association with species of pine and bearberry.[5]

This Boletales-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Dear Departed is a 2023 studio album by American musician Sam Burton. It has received positive reviews from critics.
Matthew George of Belfast Telegraph rated Dear Departed a 6 out of 10, writing that the album "is full of tasteful strings, with occasional glimpses of pedal steel guitar, with the instrumentation never dominating Burton’s strong voice".[3] Editors at The Boston Globe included this among their 50 favorite albums of 2023, with Stuart Munro calling it "an exercise in artistic catharsis after love’s departure" with "a serving of relentlessly slow-rolling, moody melancholia, sometimes flecked with Laurel Canyon folk, other times with echoes of vintage Glen Campbell, and with a good bit of country-soul vibe as well".[1] In The Observer, Phil Mongredien scored Dear Departed 3 out of 5 stars, comparing the work to Jackson Browne, Glen Campbell, and Harry Nilsson, with a "low-key charm" accentuated by "Burton’s gentle, ruminative, slightly mournful vocals".[2] At Uncut, Wyndham Wallace rated this release 4 out of 5 stars, stating that this album mixes the nostalgic with the timeless[4] and the publication's editors named it the 23rd best album of 2023.[5]
All songs written by Sam Burton.
Gymnotichthys Fernández-Yépez, 1950
Opisthanodus Ahl, 1935
Moenkhausia is a genus of freshwater fish in the family Characidae native to tropical and subtropical South America. These are medium-sized tetras where the largest species only reach around 12 cm (4.7 in).[1]
The diamond tetra and red-eye tetra, which are commonly kept in aquaria, are members of this genus.[2][3]
There are currently 90 recognized species in this genus:
Ivan Ivanov (24 April 1937 – 27 August 2010) was a Bulgarian wrestler. He competed in the men's Greco-Roman lightweight at the 1964 Summer Olympics.[1]
This biographical article relating to a Bulgarian sport wrestler or wrestling coach is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
11x MAC Tournament Champions (1982, 1983, 1984, 1986, 1997, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2013)
MAC East Division Champions (1984)
10× MAC Coach of the Year (1983, 1984, 1986, 1987, 1991, 1994, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2017)
NFCA Coach of the Year (1987)
NCAA Mideast Region Coach of the Year (1987)
2× NFCA Great Lakes Regional Coach of the Year (1994, 2000)
Grand Valley State Hall of Fame (1989)
Michigan Amateur Softball Hall of Fame (2000)
West Ottawa High School Hall of Fame (2001)
Margo F. Jonker is an American softball coach and the current head coach of the Central Michigan Chippewas. She was a 2003 inductee in the National Fastpitch Coaches Association Hall of Fame.
During her 31 years as head coach, the Chippewas have gone to the NCAA tournament 13 times and have 11 Mid-American Conference (MAC) titles. Jonker was formerly an assistant softball coach at Grand Valley State University and head coach at West Ottawa High School. CMU's Margo Jonker stadium is named after her.
At the 2000 Olympics she served as an assistant coach on the United States Olympic softball team that captured the gold medal in Sydney, Australia.[2]
She is a Holland, Michigan native and attended and played softball for the Grand Valley State Lakers.[3]
      National champion  
      Postseason invitational champion  

      Conference regular season champion   
      Conference regular season and conference tournament champion

      Division regular season champion
      Division regular season and conference tournament champion

      Conference tournament champion
      National champion  
      Postseason invitational champion  

      Conference regular season champion   
      Conference regular season and conference tournament champion

      Division regular season champion
      Division regular season and conference tournament champion

      Conference tournament champion
Goniofusus spectrum is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Fasciolariidae, the spindle snails, the tulip snails and their allies.[1]
Dredged at 100-180 feet in open water, 
off Cocos Island, Pacific side of Costa Rica.

This Fasciolariidae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
South Carolina Highway 6South Carolina Highway 6 (SC 6) is a 116.092-mile (186.832 km) primary state highway in the U.S. state of South Carolina. It extends from US 76 in Ballentine to US 52/SC 6 Truck in Moncks Corner. It uniquely[according to whom?] links all three of the major hydropower projects in South Carolina: Lake Murray, Lake Marion, and Lake Moultrie.
The highway runs generally southeast from the central part of South Carolina to near the Atlantic Ocean and is listed as a hurricane evacuation route.[1]
Beginning at a junction with U.S. Highway 52 in Moncks Corner, the route runs northwest along the shoreline of Lake Moultrie as West Main Street. It then turns right onto Ranger Drive. It turns left onto "Old Number Six Highway" where is later starts a concurrency with SC 45 as Eutaw Road. The concurrency runs and far from Lake Marion, and passes through Eutawville. There SC 45 departs to the west and SC 6 continues along the lake through Vance to Santee, where it  intersects Interstate 95. It then adjoins the Santee State Park on its right.
After a concurrency with SC 267 begins, it becomes Main Street through Elloree, South Carolina. The concurrency ends when SC 267 turns off to the right onto Lonestar Road.  SC 6 then traverses St. Matthews as Bridge Street before having a brief concurrency with U.S. Highway 176. Route 26 turns left onto Caw Caw Highway and has an interchange with Interstate 26. The route turns right and head northwest in a concurrency with U.S. Route 21  and then separates from U.S. 21 onto Center Hill Road.  It turns right on St. Matthews Road in a northwesterly direction, passing through Swansea as 2nd Street intersecting U.S. Route 321 in town and joining a concurrency with SC 302 as Edmund Hwy. The concurrency ends when SC 6 turns to the left onto S. Lake Drive where it heads northwest to Red Bank.  In Red Bank, it intersects with Interstate 20.
The route then passes through Lexington where it briefly separates into a one-way street pair. It crosses U.S. Route 1 and has a brief concurrency with U.S. Route 378. SC 6 passes just east of Lake Murray (over the Saluda Dam as a divided highway). In Irmo, SC 6 changes from N. Lake Drive to Dreher Shoals Road before ending at a junction with U.S. Highway 76 in Ballentine. The last section of the route runs south and west of Columbia, the state capital. Counties traversed by the route include Berkeley, Orangeburg, Calhoun, Lexington, and Richland.
South Carolina Highway 6 ConnectorSouth Carolina Highway 6 Connector (SC 6 Conn.) is a 0.090-mile (0.145 km) connector route that exists southwest of Irmo. It is actually a ramp southwest of the intersection of SC 6, SC 60, and Bush River Road. It is unnamed and is an unsigned highway.[3]
South Carolina Highway 6 TruckSouth Carolina Highway 6 Truck (SC 6 Truck) is a 0.770-mile (1.239 km) truck route of SC 6 that has about half of its path within the city limits of Elloree. It begins at an intersection with SC 47 on Felderville Road (S-38-81). It travels to the southeast. Then, it turns left onto Snider Street (S-38-1023) and travels to the northeast.; at Main Street, it intersects SC 6/SC 267 (Old Number Six Highway). Here, it reaches its eastern terminus. It is entirely concurrency with SC 47 Truck. A Food Lion distribution center is located in the town, the truck route provides an alternate route to that center.[6]
South Carolina Highway 6 ConnectorSouth Carolina Highway 6 Connector (SC 6 Conn.) is a 1.685-mile (2.712 km) connector route that exists southeast of Santee. It is a connector between Interstate 95, U.S. Route 15 (US 15), and US 301 south of the town and SC 6 southeast of it. It is named Five Chop Road and is an unsigned highway.[8]
South Carolina Highway 6 TruckSouth Carolina Highway 6 Truck (SC 6 Truck) is a 2.270-mile (3.653 km) truck route in the central portion of Moncks Corner, which is in the central portion of Berkeley County. The entire length is concurrent with U.S. Route 17 Alternate (US 17 Alt.) and US 52.
The truck route begins at an intersection with the SC 6 mainline (Main Street). At this intersection, it begins concurrent with US 17 Alt. (South Live Oak Drive). The two highways travel to the northeast and curve to the east-northeast. They pass the Berkeley County Courthouse and the Berkeley County Sheriff's Office. An intersection with the northern terminus of Carolina Avenue leads to the historic downtown, city hall, and recreation complex of the city. They travel on a bridge over some railroad tracks of CSX and then pass Berkeley Middle School. After passing the Moncks Corner Medical Center, they intersect US 52. Here, SC 6 Truck turns right and follows US 52 to the south-southwest. The two highways travel along a retail corridor. Then, they intersect the eastern terminus of SC 6 (East Main Street) and the western terminus of Main Street Extension. Here, SC 6 Truck ends, and US 52 continues to the south-southwest.[11]
The entire route is in Moncks Corner, Berkeley County.
Edith Alleyne Sinnotte (1871, Liverpool, UK – 15 November 1947, Balwyn, Victoria, Australia) was an Australian writer of British origin.[1]  She is best known as the first female Esperanto novelist.[2]
Edith Alleyne Sinnotte was born in 1871 in Liverpool in a family of Walter Powell Sinnotte and Isabella Baylis. She learned Esperanto in the United Kingdom before emigrating to Melbourne, Australia in 1894.[1] In December 1930 she married William Henry Mumford at the Holy Trinity Church, East Melbourne.[3]
She was a fellow of the British Esperanto Association and the president of the Mont Albert branch of the Esperanto society.[4] In 1918 her novel Lilio was published in London by British Esperanto Association.[5] It became the first novel in Esperanto by female author.[2]
Edith Alleyne Sinnotte died suddenly on 15 November 1947 at her home in Balwyn, Victoria,  and was cremated.[6][7]
Jagodnia [jaˈɡɔdɲa] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Miejska Górka, within Rawicz County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland.[1]
Skallagrigg is a 1987 novel written by William Horwood and influenced by Horwood's relationship with his own daughter Rachel, who has cerebral palsy.[1] It is notable in that it foresaw the importance of adaptive computer technology in the lives of future generations of disabled people. It is also an early example of discourse on disability politics, treatment of disabled people throughout history, and hit-or-miss relations and perceptions between disabled and non-disabled communities.
Arthur Lane is a young boy with profound cerebral palsy, who is unable to walk, talk, feed himself, or sit unsupported.  He is abandoned in a grim hospital in the north of England in 1921, at the age of seven.  His family believe they are sending him to a specialised facility for the good of all, where they will have the equipment and expertise to give him a better life.  In reality he is subject to extreme cruelty and neglect.  Through his decades-long ordeal, his faith in the 'Skallagrigg' – a special being with a keen empathy for people with his disabilities – sustains him, and stories grow up about Arthur and the Skallagrigg.
Half a century later comes Esther – a keenly intelligent teenager who also has cerebral palsy, but whose talents are recognised in a more enlightened age.  Her mother died at her birth due to a fatal car accident, and as a result, Esther was delivered prematurely by caesarian section – which is implied to have possibly contributed to her condition.  Since her father, Richard, is unable to cope with her condition and the loss of her mother, Esther is bounced between multiple foster parents – who struggle to cope with her profoundly demanding and unique medical needs – before winding up at a home for disabled children called the Dale Centre.  There she meets Peter Rowne – an even more disabled, even more intelligent boy slightly older than her, Karen – a severely learning-disabled 'frienemy', and Tom – a docile and courageous, though sometimes invasive young boy with Down syndrome, who becomes her lifelong ally and protector.
At the age of eleven, Esther takes up residence with her father, and finally manages to communicate her intelligence to him with Tom's help (specialists had emphatically cautioned her father and non-disabled carers not to see intelligence that wasn't there).  She is subsequently sent off to Netherton – an adapted school for highly gifted disabled students.  Having squandered her first term, the death of Peter Rowne from pneumonia, and her recently reconnected Grandmother's firm words, inspire a reformation in her, and she does exceptionally well.  There she ponders the life questions every teenager does – love, marriage, sex, friendships, jobs, future living, but with the added fear and uncertainty of her disability.  She also learns about the terrible conditions disabled people have had to endure, both in the past and in her lifetime.  Through all of this she grows up with the myth of the Skallagrigg, and the secret stories told among the disabled community through non-verbal language.  She eventually realises that these stories are real, told by a real person and describing a real place.  Piecing them together with the help of her friends and family, she eventually discovers Arthur, the true identity of the Skallagrigg, the characters in the story, and the fact that Arthur has an estranged son and grandson, reuniting Arthur with his beloved Skallagrigg.
Following this, Esther becomes interested in writing computer games, and carries on written conversation with Daniel, an American computer graphics genius.  Together they develop first a friendship, then, when he comes to England, a relationship which develops into a marriage.  Meanwhile, Esther obsessively works on writing a computer game based on her experiences finding the Skallagrigg, her sense that Arthur's grandson should have the chance to discover his family (despite Arthur's belief that it would be better for him not to know what his grandfather was), and her own anguish at not being able to do more for Daniel, and for their infant child, due to her severe disabilities.  The work, giving birth, and the relentless frustration and upset, take a heavy toll on her mental and physical health, which is exacerbated by frailty caused by her cerebral palsy – but she remains surrounded by love and purpose throughout.
The story ends with Arthur's son and grandson, Esther's granddaughter, father, husband and son, and Tom, all reuniting and reconciling – having been torn apart by Esther's death and by Richard's marriage to Kate and subsequent emigration to Australia.
Skallagrigg was shown on BBC2's Screen Two in 1994 with screenplay by Nigel Williams and won a BAFTA for Best Single Drama in 1995. It starred Bernard Hill, John McArdle, Richard Briers, Nick Brimble, Kerry Noble and Ian Dury.[2] Its screenplay and plot are a dramatically abridged version of the original book, and all the characters have far milder disabilities than those in the book.  A teenage Esther has been living in the Dale Centre where Tom and Raj (Peter from the book) also reside.  Her estranged father has been failing to sell sports equipment overseas.  Esther, meanwhile, has been trying to discover the identity of Arthur and the Skallagrigg, and enlists her father's help.  At first her father is quite clueless as to how to cope with her disability, and she is upset with him for having abandoned her in favour of an easier, less restricted life.  However, as their search takes them across the country, their bond grows and they become closer and more protective of each other.  They manage to rescue Arthur from abusive care and reunite him with the "Skallagrigg".  The story ends with Esther's father carrying her upstairs to bed, whereas he had left her to crawl up on her own at the start.  The plot threads concerning Daniel, Arthur's family, the computer game, and Esther's extended family, are all left out.
Homan was a station on the Chicago Transit Authority's Green Line. The station was located at Homan Avenue and Lake Street in the East Garfield Park neighborhood of Chicago. Homan was situated east of Pulaski and west of Kedzie. Homan opened in March 1894 and closed on January 9, 1994, when the entire Green Line closed for a renovation project. The station did not reopen with the rest of the Green Line on May 12, 1996.[1]
In 1997, the CTA began working with the Illinois Historic Preservation Division on a plan to preserve the historic station house by moving it two blocks west to Central Park Drive near the Garfield Park Conservatory for a new stop called Conservatory–Central Park Drive. The new station would create equal spacing between the stations at Kedzie and Pulaski but would no longer have a direct bus connection to the #82 Kimball-Homan bus route. This created some controversy in the East Garfield Park community because residents said that they would have to walk through a high crime area to get to the bus from the new station. This was also around the time when the CTA had also eliminated the #16 Lake Street bus which ran underneath the Green Line tracks. The bus route was eliminated on October 5, 1997, due to budget cuts.[2] The neighborhood also felt that the community leaders and the Mayor favored tourists who would use the new station to visit the Garfield Park Conservatory over local residents who needed the station to be located near a bus route.[3] On September 15, 1999, the CTA finished planning and released a project schedule to move the historic station house and use it to create a new station. The old Homan station was completely demolished by the spring of 2000, and put into storage to be later reconstructed at Central Park. Relocation of the former station house began in March 2001 and the project was finished on June 30, 2001, when the new station opened at Conservatory.[4]
Blue Meridian: The Search for the Great White Shark is a 1971 non-fiction nature book by the American author Peter Matthiessen. He writes of a 17-month expedition he undertook with Peter Gimbel to photograph great whites underwater. The book recounts, then, the production of the documentary Blue Water, White Death.[1][2]
Shikohabad Junction railway station is on the Kanpur-Delhi section  of Howrah–Delhi main line and Howrah–Gaya–Delhi line.  It is located in Firozabad district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It serves Shikohabad.
Through trains started running on the East Indian Railway Company's Howrah–Delhi line in 1866.[1]
A branch line was opened from Shikohabad to Mainpuri in 1905 and extended to Farrukhabad in 1906.[2]
The Panki–Tundla sector was electrified in 1971–72.[3]

This article about a railway station in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Grenurus Parr, 1946
Sphagemacrurus is a genus of rattails.
There are currently six recognized species in this genus:[1]

This Gadiformes-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
John Christopher Schulte (born 1959) is an American writer, director, and producer of animation, toys and entertainment properties.[1] He has developed many iconic intellectual properties from the 1980s, 1990s and on into the 21st-century. Working as a developer and writer, he served on the development team for the wildly popular Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which became a multibillion-dollar franchise internationally and has enjoyed several resurgences since its original inception by the comic book duo, Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. He provided seminal development for licensee, Playmates Toys, and contributed stories to the animated series, helmed by veteran satirist, Jack Mendelsohn.[2]
He developed the short-lived but treasured original toy and animation property, B.C. Bikers, about a rogue band of "chrome age" dinosaurs who ride motorcycles through their prehistoric end times. He worked on interpolating the Troma feature film, The Toxic Avenger into an animated program for kids, called Toxic Crusaders. In 2006, he worked with creator/producer, Rick Ungar, to develop Zorro: Generation Z.[3] He penned a script for an introductory animated series called Gormiti: The Invincible Lords of Nature,[4] based on the Italian toy phenomenon from Giochi Preziosi, which made its way to the United States via Playmates Toys, and debuted on Cartoon Network in 2009.
Creating story content for digital products has resulted in Schulte's co-development of a number of noteworthy projects, including smart toys for Bandai America (Tamagotchi) and Playmates Toys (Nano).[5]
Schulte collaborates with his longtime writing partners, John C. Besmehn, Fred Fox Jr.,[6] and his wife, Cheryl Ann Wong. Their business is Pangea Corporation where he serves as president.[7]
John Schulte was born in 1959 in Dayton, Ohio, the birthplace of aviation. His father, Ralph W. Schulte Jr. (b. 1928) was a former Marine, Libertarian candidate, and entrepreneur;[8] his mother Pauline (1929–2007) was an executive secretary and homemaker, and his grandmother Alice Barnett (1907–1977) was a composer and pianist for silent films.[9] Schulte's brother, Lee (b. 1951), is a German scholar, teacher, composer, and writer.[10] His sister, Betty (born 1955), is a pharmaceutical technician. Schulte married Cheryl Ann Wong (b. 1960) in 1989 and they have one daughter, Blythe Abigail Su-Ren Schulte (born 1997),[11] an actress, singer, conductress, and innovator, who has performed with Carol Channing and is a graduate of Musical Theatre University and a Professional Music graduate of the Berklee College of Music.[12] Blythe also appeared as a finalist in several episodes of ABC's The Toy Box, placing her toy concept with Mattel.[13]
Schulte moved from Ohio to Oklahoma City, whereupon he attended the University of Oklahoma in Norman, Oklahoma. He studied film writing with his mentor, Arnost Lustig, and Dwight Swain, poetry with Pulitzer Prize winner Maya Angelou, Madison Morrison, and Larry Griffin, fiction writing with Clayton Lewis and Jack Bickham, author of The Apple Dumpling Gang, playwriting with Theodore Herstand and film making with Ned Hockman.[14] In 1985, Schulte won a CAN Festival Award for a video documentary he produced with Hollywood sound supervisor, Tim Boggs.[15] He was the editor-in-chief of Imbroglios, a literary magazine for the University of Oklahoma.[16] Following his university days, he moved and settled in Southern California, attending the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute and the Hollywood Scriptwriting Institute. He wrote dialogue for Days of Our Lives and got his start writing for the toy and animation industry thanks to actor, screenwriter, Elliott Apstein,[17] whose father, Ted Apstein,[18] coincidentally wrote soap operas and television shows and taught at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute.
Schulte worked as a camera operator for sundry American Film Institute (AFI) projects, then focused on writing and producing videos with actor and soap opera writer, Elliott Apstein for clients such as Tomy Toys.[19] Following Schulte's work on Kathryn Nesmith's AFI project, An All Consuming Passion,[20] he co-wrote and produced a television pilot for Garry Marshall, called Four Stars.[21] Schulte went on to develop and write episodes for the mixed live action and animated kids show, Gina D,[22] for Sullivan Entertainment.[23] He worked on entertainment projects with producer Claudia Mokarow,[24] manager of world chess champion, Bobby Fischer. He retains the rights to the Bobby Fischer book, I Was Tortured in the Pasadena Jailhouse, and collaborated with Miloš Forman and Peter Falk on the entertainment project.
He co-produced a teenage novel trilogy with his brother, Lee, called Time Capsule Murders. The first book of the series, Why Begins With W, was published in late 2009 under the pseudonyms Hamish De'Lamet and Chandral Ramon, by Potocki Press, an imprint of WingSpan.[25] Schulte also completed work editing a self-help martial arts book, The 7 C's of Success, written by actor/director/martial artist, Shaunt Benjamin and a new book, Diary of a Little Devil, by Edgar Award-winning author, Barbara Brooks Wallace. He also edits and agents the oeuvre of Barbara Brooks Wallace.[26] One of his original intellectual properties, The Brotherhood, was included in Miriam Van Scott's The Encyclopedia of Hell.[27] He is a member of The Academy of American Poets[28] and The Authors Guild.[29]
Schulte collaborated with songwriter, singer and record producer Ron Dante on a new musical, which had a reading in 2010; and he is writing with Barbara Brooks Wallace a television show based on her Miss Switch book series. In early 2011 he wrote, designed and developed two new series based on secondary characters from the anime series, Speed Racer. He has developed a YA novel series with Besmehn and Fox based on Zorro. The first book in the series is titled, Zorro: Resurrection.[30] In 2014, in collaboration with author, Judith Furedi, Schulte edited, contributed, and released an homage to legendary musician/composer/performer, John Lennon, entitled, A Lennon Pastiche.[31] A collection of Schulte's poetry, Blue Muse Rising, was published in 2016 in concert with National Poetry Month.[32]
In 2019, Schulte was featured on Netflix's popular series, The Toys That Made Us, along with his writing and business partner, John Besmehn, on the segment discussing their writing involvement with the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.[33]
Tina Satchwell (née Dingivan; born 30 November 1972[2]) was an Irish woman who went missing under suspicious circumstances on 20 March 2017. Her remains were found hidden in her home in October 2023. Her husband, Richard Satchwell, was arrested and charged with her murder.[3][4][5]
Satchwell was from St Bernard's Place in Fermoy, County Cork. In the 1980s she moved to Leicester, England, to live with her grandmother. There she met Richard Satchwell and in 1990 the couple were married in Oldham. They moved back to Ireland, settling in Fermoy. In 2016, they moved to Grattan Street in the seaside town of Youghal where they lived with their two dogs.[6][3][4][7][8][1][9]
Satchwell disappeared from her home on 20 March 2017. She was last seen in public at a car boot sale with her husband in the town of Carrigtwohill on 19 March 2017. Richard was the last person to see her, reportedly at 10 am on 20 March 2017. He stated that Tina asked him to go to an Aldi store in Dungarvan to buy fish, and that she was gone by the time he returned around noon. He reported her missing on 24 March 2017. She was aged 44 at the time of her disappearance.[4][10]
Richard stated that his wife had been depressed and was troubled by family disputes. He believed that she had chosen to leave "to get her head straight". He later suggested that she may have gone to live with family in the United Kingdom with the help of a third party; however, Tina's family have rejected this idea. Gardaí (Irish police) have stated that Tina did not pass through any Irish or UK port or airport and that they believe she did not leave Ireland.[10][9] She did not possess a passport and did not take any identification with her. Richard stated that he believed she had taken €26,000 in cash, the proceeds of the sale of a house. Two suitcases were missing from the house. Her phone has not been used, and her bank account has not been accessed since the day of her disappearance.[3][4][2][11]
In June 2017, Richard appeared alongside Tina's aunt, Margaret Maher, on the RTÉ show Crimecall to make a public appeal for information.[7] The following month, in response to media attention and social media speculation, he stated that he would be willing to take a lie detector test. He later declined to take a test during an interview on Cork's Red FM.[12][13][11][10] In January 2018, RTÉ aired a Prime Time special programme on Tina's disappearance, featuring Richard, Tina's cousin Sarah Howard, and gardaí involved in the case.[8][14] In 2018, Richard appeared on The Ray D'Arcy Show to discuss Tina's disappearance.[10]
In March 2018, an Garda Síochána carried out a search in Mitchel's Wood near Castlemartyr in County Cork, 20 minutes from Youghal. The operation was based on a tip from a member of the public who claimed to have seen someone leave the woods on the night of Satchwell's disappearance. A no-fly zone was established over the area. Despite an extensive search, which included the use of detection dogs, no trace of Satchwell was found.[15][2][16][17][18] Searches were also carried out in scrubland and off the quays in Youghal, but nothing was discovered.[10] Gardaí have also engaged with Interpol.[1]
On 10 October 2023, Satchwell's disappearance was upgraded to a murder investigation. A man in his 50s was arrested on suspicion of murder and taken to a Garda station in Cork for questioning. A Garda team was brought in to search a premises in Youghal, County Cork.[19][20][21] On 11 October 2023, the suspect was released without charge.[22][23] The suspect was re-arrested the next day following the discovery of human remains at Satchwell's home.[24][25][26] On 13 October 2023, the remains were identified through dental records and confirmed to be those of Tina Satchwell.[27] Later that day, Richard Satchwell, Tina's husband, was charged with her murder. When arrested, he stated "guilty or not guilty - guilty".[5] On 14 October 2023, Richard Satchwell appeared before Cashel District Court.[5] He was remanded to Limerick Prison. On 3rd November 2023, he was denied bail as Judge Siobhan Lankford considered him to be a flight risk.[28]
CXOU J164710.2−455216 is an anomalous X-ray pulsar and magnetar in the massive galactic open cluster Westerlund 1. It is the brightest X-ray source in the cluster, and was discovered in 2005 in observations made by the Chandra X-ray Observatory.[1][2] The Westerlund 1 cluster is believed to have formed in a single burst of star formation,[3] implying that the progenitor star must have had a mass in excess of 40 solar masses. The fact that a neutron star was formed instead of a black hole implies that more than 95% of the star's original mass must have been lost before or during the supernova that produced the magnetar.[4][5]
On 21 September 2006 the Swift satellite detected a 20ms soft gamma-ray burst in Westerlund 1. Fortuitously, XMM-Newton observations had been made four days earlier, and repeat observations 1.5 days after the burst revealed the magnetar to be the source of the burst, with the X-ray luminosity increasing by a factor of 100 during the outburst.[6]
see text
Stichaeidae, the pricklebacks or shannies, are a family of marine ray-finned fishes in the suborder Zoarcoidei of the order Scorpaeniformes. Most species are found in the North Pacific Ocean with a few in the North Atlantic Ocean.
Stichaeidae was first proposed as a family in 1864 by the American zoologist Theodore Gill, although he called it the Stichaeoidae.[2] The 5th edition of Fishes of the World classifies this family within the suborder Zoarcoidei, within the order Scorpaeniformes.[3] Other authorities classify this family in the infraorder Zoarcales within the suborder Cottoidei of the Perciformes because removing the Scorpaeniformes from the Perciformes renders that taxon non monophyletic.[4]
Fishes of the World mentions six subfamilies but does not assign genera to the subfamilies[3] while other authorities split the Cebidichthyidae, Opisthocentridae, Lumpenidae and Neozoarcidae from the Sitchaeidae as valid families. The genera which are classified within the family Eulophiidae were also previously included within the Stichaeidae.[5][6][7][8][9][10]
The family Stichaeidae is classified into subfamilies and genera as follows († means extinct):[2]
Catalog of Fishes classifies these fishes as follows:[5][6][7][8][9][10]
The name of the family comes from that of its type genus Stichaeus, which means “set in a row”, which may be an allusion to the row of black spots on the dorsal fins of the species in that genus.[12]
Stichaeidae are characterised by having elongate bodies which are a little compressed. They have a very long dorsal fin which typically contains a large number of sharp spines, giving rise to the common name of prickleback, and there may be some spines at the rear of the dorsal fin. The anal fin is long and has its origin closer to the head than to the tail, or halfway between the head and tail. The pectoral fins may be very small to very large and fan shaped, containing between 2 and 21 rays. The normally present small pelvic fins are located anterior to the pectoral fins, and have a single spine and between one and four rays. There are no appendages on the head, although some species have a crest, and there is a single pair of nostrils. The body is typically covered with small, overlapping scales but the head, other than the cheeks, is normally lacking scales. The sensory canals on the head are typically well developed; there are normally 6 preopercular pores and 4 mandibular pores. There may be two lateral lines which can vary from a hardly noticeable row of neuromasts to one or more canals which can have complex branching. Their teeth are small and may be incisor-like or conical in shape. In the majority of species the gill membranes are widely joined and separate from the isthmus. Most species have a siphon on the operculum. They usually have pyloric caeca but not a swim bladder. They have ribs.[2]
Stichaeidae is found in the North Pacific, North Atlantic, and Arctic oceans, with the majority of species in the North Pacific. They are coastal fishes which are found beneath rocks and in algae from the intertidal zone to shallow bays. the can be found at depths greater than 250 m (820 ft) on the outer continental shelf.[2]
The Ursulines, also known as the Order of Saint Ursula (post-nominals: OSU), is an enclosed religious order of women that in 1572 branched off from the Angelines, also known as the Company of Saint Ursula. The Ursulines trace their origins to the Angeline foundress Angela Merici and likewise place themselves under the patronage of Saint Ursula. While the Ursulines took up a monastic way of life under the Rule of Saint Augustine, the Angelines operate as a secular institute. The largest group within the Ursulines is the Ursulines of the Roman Union.
In 1572 in Milan, under Charles Borromeo, the Archbishop of Milan, members of the Company of Saint Ursula chose to become an enclosed religious order. Pope Gregory XIII placed them under the Rule of Saint Augustine. Especially in France, groups of the company began to re-shape themselves as cloistered nuns, under solemn vows, and dedicated to the education of girls within the walls of their monasteries.[1]
In the following century, the Ursuline nuns were strongly encouraged and supported by Francis de Sales. They were called the "Ursuline nuns" as distinct from the "federated Ursulines" of the company, who preferred to follow the original way of life. Both forms of life continued to spread throughout Europe and beyond.[2]
At the beginning of the 18th century, the period of its greatest growth, the order was represented by 20 congregations, 350 convents and from 15,000 to 20,000 nuns.[3][4]
The Ursuline sisters were not the first Catholic nuns to land in the new world. They were preceded by the Hieronymites in 1585 in Mexico City, who established the convent of San Jerónimo y Santa Paula.[5] In 1639, Mother Marie of the Incarnation, two other Ursuline nuns, three Augustinian sisters and a Jesuit priest left France for a mission in New France in what is now the Province of Quebec, Canada. When they arrived in the summer of 1639, they studied the languages of the native peoples and then began to educate the native children.[6] They taught reading and writing as well as needlework, embroidery, drawing, and other domestic arts.[7][8] The Ursuline convent in Quebec City is the oldest educational institution for women in North America.[9] Their work helped to preserve a religious spirit among the French population and to evangelize native peoples of New France.
The first Ursulines arrived at Mobile, Alabama, in 1719 (though information is contradictory from remaining and available sources). In 1727, 12 Ursulines from France landed in what is now New Orleans. The entire group of Ursulines were the first Roman Catholic nuns in what is now the United States. Both properties were part of the French colony of Louisiana (New France). They came to the country under the auspices of Pope Pius III and Louis XV of France. Following the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, their charter came under the jurisdiction of the United States.[10]
They instituted a convent and school, both of which continue today.[11] Ursuline Academy (New Orleans) is the oldest continually operating Catholic school in the United States and the oldest girls school in the United States.[12] The Ursuline tradition holds many United States firsts in its dedication to the growth of individuals, including the first female pharmacist, first woman to contribute a book of literary merit, first convent, first free school and first retreat center for ladies, first classes for female slaves (which continued until abolition), free women of color (a unique New Orleans group also known as Creoles of Color) and Native Americans. In the Mississippi Valley region, Ursulines provided the first social welfare center.[13]
The Old Ursuline Convent is located in the Vieux Carre (New Orleans' French Quarter). The building now houses the Archdiocese of New Orleans' Archives as well as operating as a tourist attraction/ museum with public tours available almost daily. They had a well established presence as a hospital by the time of the US Revolutionary War. Ursuline sisters treated in the same building both British and United States soldiers wounded in the war. They may have been the first group of women propagating the ideals of diversity in a society, which flowed directly from the teachings of St Ursula and her followers.
Ursuline nuns, primarily from France and Germany, settled in other parts of North America including Boston (1820), Brown County, Ohio (1845), Cleveland (1850), New York City (1855), Louisville (1858), Chatham, Ontario (1860), and Bruno (1916) and Prelate (1919) in Saskatchewan. These foundations spread to other parts of North America including Toledo, Youngstown, OH, Mount St. Joseph, Kentucky[14] Santa Rosa, Texas, and Mexico City.[15]
The members wore a habit consisting of a black dress bound by a leathern girdle, a black sleeveless cloak, and a close-fitting headdress with a white veil and a longer black veil.[16] Since Vatican II they were no longer required to wear habits and today many opt out of wearing a habit.
Today the monastic Order of St. Ursula (post-nominals OSU) has as its largest group the Ursulines of the Roman Union (described in this article) which consists of Ursulines of the Eastern Province, Ursulines of the Central Province and Ursulines of the Western Province. The other branch is the Company of St. Ursula, commonly called the "Angelines", who follow the original form of life established by their foundress.
Ursuline Academy, Springfield, Illinois was founded in 1857 by Mother Mary Joseph Wolfe and operated from 1857 until 2007.
In 1767, Nano Nagle stayed with the Ursuline Sisters on Rue des Ursulines in Paris while visiting her cousin Margaret Butler who had been professed just one year previously. In 1771, she established the first Ursuline convent in Ireland on Cove Lane in Cork. The community was made up of four Cork women – who were professed at the Ursuline Convent in the Rue St. Jacques in Paris – together with a reverend mother.[17][3] In 1825, the sisters and their boarding students relocated to Blackrock. The first Ursuline primary and second-level schools were founded at Blackrock.[18]
At the request of James Butler, Archbishop of Cashel and Emly, Anastasia Tobin went to Cork to train as a religious. She was professed at the Ursuline convent in September 1787, and returned to Thurles where she commenced teaching. Joined in 1796 by two others also trained at Cork, a small Ursuline community was founded at Thurles. In 1816, four sisters from Thurles established a community in Waterford.[19] In 1932, Providence School was opened to serve the needs of the travelling community.[20]
In 1839, George Joseph Plunket Browne, Bishop of Galway, brought the Ursuline Order of nuns to Dangan on the Oughterard road. In 1844, Browne was translated to the Diocese of Elphin. The Ursulines Order followed him to Elphin, first to Summerhill in Athlone and then to Sligo. He raffled his carriage to raise funds to compensate the sisters for the financial loss they suffered by removing to Sligo. There they took up residence at "Seaville", the former house of Bishop Burke, Browne's predecessor, and renamed it St. Joseph's Convent. Nazareth free primary school was built in 1851.[21] In 1952 the Ursulines established St. Angela's College, Sligo for the training of students and teachers in Home Economics, which became recognised college of the National University of Ireland in 1978, and since 2003 is a college of the National University of Ireland, Galway.
The Irish Ursuline Union was established in 1978.
In the United States, the Ursulines founded two well-known Catholic women's colleges. Ursuline College in Pepper Pike, Ohio, was founded in 1871 by the Ursuline Sisters of Cleveland. It was followed in 1904 by College of New Rochelle, now closed, but was located in New Rochelle, New York.
In 1919, the Ursulines founded a university-level liberal arts college for women in London, Ontario, Canada. Currently called Brescia University College (Brescia College at its foundation), it remains the only women-only university-level college in Canada and is affiliated with the University of Western Ontario.
From 1922 to 1975 the Mary Manse College in Toledo, Ohio, was operated by the Ursulines. It was a women's college until 1971, then was coeducational for its final four years.
In 1927, the Ursuline Sisters of the Eastern Province restructured Catholic education in Elkton, Maryland, by assisting in the founding of Immaculate Conception School, originally located at the corner of Cathedral Street and Singerly Avenue in historic Elkton, Maryland. The Ursulines ministered within the schoolhouse from 1927 to 1930, followed by the Sisters of the Third Order of St. Francis, Glen Ridde.
in 1931, The Ursulines established St. Ursula's College in Toowoomba alongside Downlands College which was established by the Missionaries of the Sacred Heart
In 1932, the Great Falls Junior College for Women was founded in Great Falls, Montana. Now the University of Providence, it has an open admission policy.
In 1921, the Ursuline Sisters of Louisville established Sacred Heart Junior College, which was expanded into a four-year college, Ursuline College, in 1938. Ursuline College merged with Bellarmine College in 1968, now Bellarmine University.[22]
The Mount Saint Joseph Junior College for Women operated between 1925 and 1950 in Maple Mount, Kentucky, with the Ursulines offering co-educational extension courses at Owensboro. The Ursulines merged their extension courses with Mount Saint Joseph Junior College in 1950, creating the co-educational Brescia University that remains in operation.
In 1966, the Ursulines established in Taiwan what became the Wenzao Ursuline College of Languages.
From 1968 to 2003 the Ursuline Order operated Ursula College at the Australian National University in Canberra, Australia. It is a co-educational residential college for approximately 200 undergraduates. In 2003 the college was sold to the university and was renamed Ursula Hall. The Ursuline tradition has been retained in the Hall's high educational standards, retention of Ursuline symbols and livery, and the observance in October of Ursies Weekend for relaxing and socializing before November exams.
Ursuline secondary education schools are found across the United States and other countries. The first school was Ursuline Academy, began in 1727 in New Orleans, Louisiana. It is the oldest all-girls school in the country. The Academy of Mount St. Ursula High School[23] in the Bronx is the oldest all-girls Catholic high school in New York State, founded in 1855, the same year Sacred Heart Academy in Louisville, Kentucky, was founded.
In New York City, in 1873, James Boyce (1826–1876) invited the Ursuline nuns to found a girls' academy in St. Teresa's parish on Manhattan's Lower East Side. The new school, called St. Teresa's Ursuline Academy, located at 137 Henry Street, was incorporated in 1881 and as of 1891 had a faculty of five sisters teaching 62 pupils.[24] In 1899, the Ursulines bought a two-story, wood-frame house farther uptown in Manhattan, at the northwest corner of Park Avenue and 93rd Street, converted the house to a school building, and changed the name of their school to simply "Ursuline Academy". In 1905, a news article announced plans for a twenty-four-foot wide, four-story seminary building to be built on the site to the design of architect Joseph H. McGuire.[25] The new building was constructed immediately to the west of Gen. Scott's old house, in its former garden.[26] The order occupied both buildings until selling them in 1912, and moving the school to the Ursuline Provinculate at Grand Boulevard and 165th Street in the Bronx, New York.[27](Both the house and school building were demolished for the construction of the Francis F. Palmer House beginning in 1916.
The Ursuline School in New Rochelle, New York, is a school for girls in grades 6-12 and is closely affiliated with the nearby Iona Preparatory School.[citation needed]
Other notable all-female Ursuline secondary schools in the United States include Ursuline Academy of Dallas, Texas, Ursuline Academy in Saint Louis, Missouri (founded in 1848), and Ursuline Academy in Wilmington, Delaware.[citation needed]
In the London Borough of Newham, United Kingdom, is the all-female girl school St. Angela's, named after the founder of the Ursulines. Only the sixth form centre of the school allows males. The same applies to the Ursuline High School in Wimbledon, which was selected as a Regional Winner - "London Secondary" in the Church School Awards 2011.[28] Ursulines also have St Ursula's Convent School in Greenwich which educates girls aged 11 to 16 and coeducational Ursuline College, Westgate-on-Sea.
The British philosopher and author Celia Green has written extensively about her time at the Ursuline High School (now Ursuline Academy Ilford) in Ilford, London.[29] Angela de Merici inspired the Ursuline Sisters to provide young women with an opportunity to achieve their full potential. Throughout their lives, students continue to remain part of the Ursuline community and continue to carry forward the legacy of Angela de Merici, by serving their society.[30]
There is an Ursuline Convent, in Ranchi, Jharkhand, India.[31]
In Thailand, the Ursulines established Mater Dei School in Bangkok in 1928. Its elite alumni include Kings Ananda Mahidol and Bhumibol Adulyadej.[32] Although an all-girls school, it enrolled boys from Kindergarten through Primary 2.
In Indonesia, the Ursulines established the Princess Juliana School in Batavia (1912), after its initial establishment as an Ursuline Convent in 1859. Now the school is known as St. Ursula Catholic School and is an all-girls school.[citation needed]
Like their colleges, not all Ursuline secondary schools have remained single-sex. Villa Angela Academy, founded in 1878, in Cleveland, Ohio, merged with Marianist (Society of Mary) St. Joseph High School in 1990 forming the coed Villa Angela St. Joseph High School. The aforementioned Ursuline Academy in Delaware permits male students in grades 1–3, and Ursuline High School in Youngstown, Ohio, founded in 1905, is fully co-educational. Other Ursuline secondary schools in the United States include Beaumont School in Cleveland Heights, Ohio (founded in 1850); Ursuline Academy in San Antonio, TX (founded 1851 - closed 1992); Ursuline Academy in Cincinnati, Ohio (founded in 1898); St. Ursula Academy in Cincinnati, Ohio; the Ursuline Academy of Dedham in Dedham, Massachusetts; Ursuline High School in Santa Rosa, California (founded in 1880); Ursuline Academy in Springfield, Illinois (founded 1857), which was coed from 1981 until it closed in 2007; and St. Joseph's Ursuline Academy in Malone, New York (closed in 1977 and was coed at least from the mid-1960s). There are Ursuline secondary schools in Ireland in Thurles, County Tipperary; Waterford, Blackrock, County Cork; and Sligo, Ireland, which have remained single sex.[citation needed]
The Victorian Labor Party, officially known as the Australian Labor Party (Victorian Branch) and commonly referred to simply as Victorian Labor, is the Victorian state branch of the Australian Labor Party (ALP). The branch is currently the ruling parting in the state of Victoria and is led by Jacinta Allan, who has served concurrently as premier of Victoria since 2023.
The Victorian branch comprises two major wings: the parliamentary wing and the organisational wing. The parliamentary wing comprising all elected party members in the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council, which when they meet collectively constitute the party caucus. The parliamentary leader is elected from and by the caucus, and party factions have a strong influence in the election of the leader. The leader's position is dependent on the continuing support of the caucus (and party factions) and the leader may be deposed by failing to win a vote of confidence of parliamentary members. By convention, the premier sits in the Legislative Assembly, and is the leader of the party controlling a majority in that house. The party leader also typically is a member of the Assembly, though this is not a strict party constitutional requirement.
When the Labor party wins sufficient seats to be able to control a majority in the Legislative Assembly, the party leader becomes the State Premier and Labor will form the government. When the party is not in government, the party leader becomes the Leader of the Opposition. To become a Premier or Opposition Leader, the party leader must be or within a short period of time become a member of the Legislative Assembly.
Jacinta Allan and Ben Carroll have been the leader and deputy party leader respectively since 27 September 2023. At the 2014 state election, the ALP in Victoria obtained a majority with 47 of the 88 seats in the Legislative Assembly and formed the Government of Victoria. They then increased their share of seats in the Assembly to 55 after the 2018 election. The party currently has 15 of the 40 seats in the Legislative Council.
While struggling to balance an uneasy alliance of trade unionists and progressive social reformers during the 1890s, the political labor movement in Victoria underwent several changes of name. It was called the Progressive Political League between 1891 and 1894, the United Labor and Liberal Party of Victoria from June 1894, the United Labor Party from 1896 and the Political Labor Council of Victoria from 1901; before becoming the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party.[2]
Labor members were first elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly in 1894, but the actual numbers are uncertain. They stood as part of the United Labor and Liberal Party, formed in 1894 to replace the Progressive Political League, which won 18 of the 95 seats.[3] At the 1897 election Labor candidates stood as the United Labor Party and won 8 of the 95 seats, all of which had to be contested.[4] Its representation went to 9 of the 95 seats at the 1900 election.[5] Labor candidates contested the 1902 election as the Political Labor Council of Victoria and won 12 of the 95 seats.[6]
At the 1904 election Labor won 17 of the 67 seats, becoming the second largest party in the Assembly, and became the Opposition. George Prendergast took over as leader of the parliamentary Labor party from Frederick Bromley after Bromley had resigned due to ill health six days after the election. At the 1907 election it slipped to 14 of 65 seats; and increased to 21 of 65 seats at the 1908 election. At the 1911 election Labor won 20 of the 65 seats, to 43 for the various factions of the Liberal Party. Prendergast resigned the leadership because of ill-health in 1913, to be succeeded by George Elmslie, who had been elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly in 1902 and became deputy leader in 1912.
In December 1913, the Liberal Premier, William Watt, resigned after a dispute with the rural faction of his own party. The acting Governor, John Madden, surprised the Liberals by sending for Elmslie, who on 9 December formed Victoria's first Labor government. Elmslie's tenure as Premier lasted only 14 days, by which time the Liberal factions re-united, and Watt moved a no-confidence motion in Elmslie and resumed office on 22 December. Watt resigned in June 1914 to enter federal politics, and Alexander Peacock returned to leadership. The 1914 election was fought after World War I was declared, and Labor increased its seats to 22, while the Liberals retained 43.
The 1916 Labor split occurred over the issue of World War I conscription in Australia which saw pro-conscription Labor members expelled from the party and running as National Labor candidates at the 1917 election. That election also saw the emergence of the Victorian Farmers' Union (the forerunner of the Country Party) as a party. There was also a split in the Nationalist party into rural and city factions and both factions fielded their own candidates. However, Victoria introduced compulsory preferential voting before this election, and most of the preferences resulting from multiple Nationalist candidates were kept within the party. At that election, of the 65 seats, the pro-Ministerial city faction of the Nationalists won 13 seats, while the rural faction won 27. Labor won 18 seats, National Labor won 3 and the VFU won 4. After the election the rural Nationalist faction took control of the party, ousting Premier Alexander Peacock. The Nationalists reunited under Bowser. Elmslie died in 1918 and Prendergast returned to the party's leadership. At the 1920 election Labor won 20 seats to the Nationalists' 30. VFU became a force, holding the balance of power in the Legislative Assembly with 13 seats, a position it held until 1952. In 1920, it supported the conservative Nationalist government. In 1921, the VFU voted with Labor against the Nationalist government when it abolished the compulsory wheat pool operating in the state, leading to a dissolution of Parliament and the 1921 election, which maintained the same balance of power.
In April 1924, the VFU, now called the Country Party, again withdrew its support from the Nationalist government when it tried to legislate a reduction in the rural over-representation. Peacock, back in government, called the 1924 election in June, at which Labor won 27 seats, the Nationalists 20 and the Country Party 13. The Country Party supported the minority Labor government in exchange for a number of policy concessions. Prendergast became Premier at the age of 70 – the oldest man ever to take the office for the first time. The only real talents in his government were Edmond Hogan as Minister for Agriculture and Railways and William Slater as Attorney-General. John Cain was an Assistant Minister.[citation needed] The Prendergast government was the first Labor government in Victoria able actually to govern. Immediate action was taken to provide shelter for unemployed Victorians, while the government set up royal commissions into the causes of a major police strike in 1923, the prices of bread and flour, and the soldier settlement scheme. Increased expenditure was made available for rural roads, while reductions were made on rail freights and fares. With the support of the Country Party, he was able to pass several bills assisting farmers, but the Country Party would not support anything which benefited Labor's urban working-class base. This was a frustrating situation for Labor ministers, and several urged Prendergast to call another election in the hope of improving their position, but Prendergast was too timid to run the risk. In November the Country Party patched up its differences with the Nationalists, and the two parties joined forces to defeat Prendergast in the Assembly. The Country Party leader, John Allan, succeeded him as Premier.[citation needed]
Labor in Victoria in the early federal period was much weaker than in the other states, and there had never been a majority Labor state government. This was partly due to the continuing attraction of Deakinite liberalism among middle-class voters in Melbourne, partly because Victoria did not have the huge pastoral and mining areas that the other mainland states had. The Parliamentary Labor Party remained small and contained limited talent. Victoria was Labor's weakest state throughout the 1920s, due to the gross over-representation of rural areas in the Legislative Assembly, and the strength of the Country Party in rural areas and the Nationalist Party in middle-class Melbourne seats. Labor's parliamentary representation was confined to the industrial areas of Melbourne and a few provincial towns. There was little talent in the Parliamentary Labor Party and few regarded Prendergast as likely ever to win a state election.[citation needed] Most notably, however, the lack of a Labor majority government was due to the high degree of rural over-representation existing in the state's electoral system, which strongly favoured rural electorates to the disadvantage of inner-city electorates, where Labor's vote was concentrated.
Hogan had been elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly in 1913. His was not a natural Labor seat, but it was heavily Irish-Catholic, which helped Hogan, an active Catholic, retain it. In 1914 he was elected to the Labor Party's state executive and in 1922 he became State President. Prendergast resigned as Labor leader in 1926 and was succeeded by Hogan.
Hogan was a fine speaker and soon became a leading figure in a parliamentary party which was thin on talent. Victoria was Labor's weakest state and in the 1920s there seemed little chance it would ever win a state election. When Prendergast stepped down in 1926, Hogan was the obvious choice to succeed him. His main drawback was his close association with the Melbourne horse-racing, boxing and gambling identity John Wren, who was widely suspected of corruption. The Wren connection alienated many middle-class voters from Labor through the 1920s and 1930s.
Nevertheless, at the 1927 election Hogan was able to capitalise on resentment against rural over-representation in the state Parliament and consequent domination by the Country Party. Labor won 28 seats to the Nationalists 15 and the Country Party's ten. Hogan was able to form a minority government with the support of the four Country Progressive Party and two Liberal members. But this alliance broke down in 1928 in the face a prolonged and violent industrial dispute on the Melbourne waterfront, and in November he was defeated in a confidence vote and resigned, being succeeded by the Nationalist William McPherson with the support of the Country Party.
In 1929 the Country Party withdrew its support from the McPherson government, resulting in the 1929 election, fought just as the Great Depression was breaking over Australia. Hogan led Labor to its best result yet, winning 30 seats to the Nationalists' 17 and the Country Party's 11. A collection of Country Progressives, Liberals and independents held the balance, and they agreed to support a second Hogan government. Tom Tunnecliffe was Chief Secretary, John Cain was Minister for Railways and William Slater was Attorney-General.
The Great Depression in Australia had a devastating effect on Victoria's economy and society, since the state was heavily dependent on agricultural exports, mainly wheat and wool, for its income, and these industries collapsed almost completely as demand in Britain dried up. By 1931 most Victorian farmers were bankrupt and about 25 percent of the workforce was unemployed. Hogan's government, in common with all other governments, had no solution to this disaster. Even if the Labor government was minded to attempt radical solutions, it was dependent on Country Progressive support in the Assembly, and had only six members in the Legislative Council.
Hogan adopted the orthodox economic view that governments must balance their budgets, and since the Council would not permit any increases in taxation, the only way to do this in the face of falling government revenue was to cut expenditure. This increased the burdens on the poor and unemployed, while providing no stimulus to the economy. There was little possibility of effective unemployment relief, although there were some government works to soak up unemployment, such as the Shrine of Remembrance and the Great Ocean Road.
In August 1930 Hogan attended a conference with the other Premiers and the Labor Prime Minister, James Scullin, to consider what to do. On the advice of Sir Otto Niemeyer, a senior official of the Bank of England (which controlled most of Victoria's access to credit in the City of London), they agreed to radical cuts to government spending and borrowing. This provoked a storm of protest in the Labor Party and trade unions, who regarded Scullin and Hogan as traitors.
A second conference in June 1931 produced the Premiers' Plan, which entailed further cuts in government spending, accompanied by increases in taxation on the wealthy. In the circumstances both of these measures further depressed the economy, while not satisfying either side of politics. The 1931 Labor split occurred, with a breakaway NSW Labor Party led by Jack Lang rebelled and brought down the Scullin government in November, but Hogan survived with Country Party continued support from the cross benches. In any case the Nationalists, now renamed the United Australia Party (UAP) preferred to see Hogan implement the Premiers' Plan.
In February 1932 Hogan traveled to London to talk to the banks about Victoria's desperate economic plight. While he was away Tom Tunnecliffe was acting Premier, and he was much more willing than Hogan to reject the Premiers' Plan. As a result, the Country Party withdrew its support, and in April the government was defeated in a confidence vote. Tunnecliffe replaced Hogan as Labor leader and led the Labor campaign in May 1932 election, now rejecting the Premiers' Plan completely. The Labor Party Executive expelled everyone who had supported the Premiers' Plan, including Hogan, although it did not run a candidate against him. At the elections the UAP won 31 seats to Labor's 16 and the reunited Country Party's 14. Hogan and one of his ex-ministers were elected as "Premiers' Plan Labor" candidates. UAP leader Stanley Argyle became Premier.
After sitting as an independent for four years, Hogan joined the Country Party in 1935, and formed a close relationship with the Country Party leader Albert Dunstan. The result was a renewed alliance between the Country Party and Labor, brokered by Hogan, John Wren and the Victorian Labor State President, Arthur Calwell. In April 1935 Dunstan walked out of Argyle's government, and became Premier with Labor support. Hogan became Minister for Agriculture and Mines, and held these posts through Dunstan's record term as Premier until September 1943.
John Cain I was assistant minister for agriculture in the short-lived minority Prendergast Labor government in 1924, a minister without portfolio in the first minority Hogan Labor government (1927–28), and minister for railways and for electrical undertakings in the second Hogan government (1929–32). When Hogan's government collapsed during the Great Depression and Hogan himself was expelled from the Labor Party, Cain became party deputy leader under Tunnecliffe. Cain succeeded Tunnecliffe as Labor leader in 1937. Under both Tunnecliffe and Cain, Labor supported the Dunstan minority Country Party government from 1935 to 1943. At the 1943 election, Labor, now led by John Cain, benefiting from the popularity of John Curtin's wartime federal government, won 22 of the 65 seats.
Dunstan resigned on 14 September 1943 and John Cain formed government, which lasted only 4 days.[7] The conservative parties resolved their differences and Dunstan resumed office and retained it with Labor support until November 1945, when Dunstan resigned again. Cain again became premier on 21 November 1945. Labor's lower house parliamentary position was much better than it had been in 1943, since the 1945 election had given Labor 31 seats to the Country Party's 18 and the Liberals' 13, with three independents. With a majority in neither House, Cain's government was unable to pass much legislation. On 2 October 1947 the Victorian Legislative Council blocked his government's budget to show its opposition to the federal Labor government of Ben Chifley, which had announced plans to nationalise the private banks. Although this issue had nothing to do with state politics, Cain was forced to resign and call the 1947 election for 8 November, at which Labor was heavily defeated.[7] The 1950 election gave Labor 24 seats to the Liberals' 27 and the Country Party's 13. Since the Liberals and Country Party hated each other, no stable majority government was possible, and this, together with the unpopularity of the new federal Liberal government, gave Cain his opportunity. In October 1952 the Country Party premier, John McDonald, resigned and called the 1952 election. Labor won 37 seats, the first time it had won a majority in the lower house, and Cain formed his third government.
Cain's government was hampered by the hostility of the Legislative Council (which until 1950 had been elected on a restricted property-based franchise and so always had a conservative majority), and also by tensions within his own party. During the war the Communist Party had grown greatly in strength in the trade unions which controlled and funded the Labor Party, leading a faction of anti-Communist Catholics to form within the party to fight Communist influence. (This body, known as The Movement, was organised by B. A. Santamaria and supported by the Catholic Archbishop of Melbourne, Daniel Mannix). Conflict between left and right in the Labor Party grew increasingly bitter in the Cold War atmosphere of the 1950s.
Nevertheless, the Cain government was able to pass more legislation than any previous Labor government in Victoria had done. Major reforms were carried out in the areas of workers' compensation, tenancy law, long service leave, hospitals, public transport, housing, charities and the Crimes Act. Changes included the provision on long-service leave to railway workers, increased eligibility to workers' compensation, alterations to the Shops and Factories Act and the Landlord and Tenant Act, and the introduction of legislation "to penalize rogues who resorted to fraudulent misrepresentation in soliciting corporate investment from the public."
The government had also reformed wage determination procedures and public service administration, while constructive initiatives were carried out in adult education and soil conservation.[8] Even some reforms to the electoral system were carried through the Council, where Labor and Liberal members united to reduce the malapportionment which had given the Country Party disproportionate representation since the 1920s. In its first two years the Cain government won the approval of the Melbourne daily papers The Age, The Herald and The Argus. Nevertheless, Cain's third Government fell on 19 April 1955 when 19 expelled Labor lower house members aligned to "The Movement" "crossed the floor" against the government in a no-confidence vote.[7]
The 1955 Labor split began in October 1954 after the federal leader, Dr H. V. Evatt, blamed Santamaria and his supporters in the Victorian Labor Party for Labor's loss of seats at the 1954 federal election. Santamaria exercised strong influence in the Cain government through "Movement" linked ministers such as Bill Barry and Frank Scully. Protestant and left-wing ministers strongly opposed the Movement faction. In December 1953 the Lands Minister, Robert Holt, resigned rather than introduce a Santamaria-influenced bill which would have promoted the settlement of Italian immigrants as small farmers in Gippsland.
In early 1955 the Labor Party's federal executive dissolved the state executive and began to expel Santamaria's supporters from the party. The Victorian branch then split between pro-Evatt and pro-Santamaria factions, and in March the pro-Evatt State Executive suspended 24 members of State Parliament suspected of being Santamaria supporters. Four ministers were forced to resign from the government. When the Parliament met on 19 April 19 expelled Labor members crossed over to vote with the Liberal and Country Party members to defeat the government. At the ensuing May 1955 election, the expelled members and others stood as the Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist), later the Democratic Labor Party. Their strategy was to draw votes from the Labor Party and direct preferences to the Liberal Party. Labor was heavily defeated, winning only 20 seats, from the 37 at the 1952 election, to the Liberals' 34 and the Country Party's ten. Only one of the expelled Labor members was re-elected.
Cain suffered a stroke on 9 August 1957 and died, aged 75. Alfred Ernest "Ernie" Shepherd (1901–58) succeeded Cain as party leader, only to die himself little more than a year afterwards. From 1958 to 1967 Clive Stoneham was Labor and Opposition Leader. He lost the 1961, 1964 and 1967 elections to the incumbent Liberal Premier, Henry Bolte, with the electoral assistance of the Democratic Labor Party, which directed its preferences to the Liberals.
Clyde Holding became party leader in 1967. During the 1970 state election campaign, which some commentators suggested Labor could win as a result of voter fatigue with the Liberals after their 15 years in power, Holding campaigned on the new federal policy of supporting state aid to non-government schools. However, in the week before the election, the left-wing state president, George Crawford and state secretary, Bill Hartley, issued a statement saying that a Victorian Labor government would not support state aid. As a result, federal leader Gough Whitlam refused to campaign for Labor in Victoria, and Holding was forced to repudiate his own policy. At the election, the Bolte government was returned.
This episode led directly to federal intervention in the Victorian branch of the Labor Party. In 1971 the left-wing leadership was overturned by the National Executive and allies of Whitlam, Hawke and Holding took control. The left then formed an organised faction, the Socialist Left, to agitate for socialist policies, supported by some unions. This continuing conflict in the party made it difficult for Holding to oppose the Liberal government effectively.[citation needed] The surge in support for federal Labor which saw Whitlam elected Prime Minister in 1972 was not reflected in Victorian state politics. Bolte retired in 1972, and his successor, Dick Hamer, comfortably won the 1973 and 1976 state elections. Frank Wilkes became party leader in 1977. At the 1979 state election, Labor under Wilkes gained eleven seats, the party's best showing for many years,[9] though not sufficient to form government.
John Cain II, son of the former Labor premier, became party leader in September 1981, and won the 1982 election, winning 49 of the 81 seats in the Legislative Assembly, forming a Labor government for the first time since 1955. In 1984 the Labor government legalised prostitution in Victoria.
At the 1985 election Labor won 47 of the 88 seats; and 46 seats at the 1988 election. Cain's political support collapsed in August 1990. By this time the Labor government was in deep crisis, with some of the state's financial institutions on the brink of insolvency, the budget deficit unsustainably high and growing and the Labor Party deeply divided on how to respond to the situation.
Cain resigned and Joan Kirner was elected Labor leader, becoming the party's first female leader and Victoria's first female premier. The party hoped that the elevation of a popular woman as its new leader would improve its position, but Kirner never succeeded in gaining control of the crisis into which the state had plunged. The conservative-leaning Melbourne newspaper, the Herald Sun, reacted unfavourably to a premier from the Socialist Left, dubbing her "Mother Russia". She was lampooned alternatively as a sinister commissar and as a frumpy housewife in a polka dot dress. She seemed unfazed by the Herald Sun and gradually won some respect, though she was unable to improve significantly the government's standing.
During 1991 and 1992 Kirner took several decisions to cut government spending and raise revenue to some extent. However, her government failed to cut spending in many areas including education. Most of the Kirner government's attempts to cut spending were actively opposed by trade unions and some members of the government. The interest bill alone was $3.5 billion per year,[10] the government sold off trains and trams and leased them back. Another decision was the sale in 1991 of the state-owned State Bank of Victoria, now on the verge of collapse, to the Commonwealth Bank.[11]
Liberal leader Alan Brown persuaded the Nationals to contest the next election as a Coalition,[12] the first time the two main non-Labor parties in Victoria had fought an election together since 1950, before Brown was deposed as Liberal leader by Jeff Kennett in 1991. Kirner went into 1992 knowing she faced a statutory general election, one which opinion polls gave her virtually no chance of winning. She waited as long as she could, finally calling an election for October. It was obvious as soon as the writs were dropped that Labor would not win a fourth term. Although she remained personally more popular than Kennett, it was not nearly enough to overcome the electorate's anger at her party. The Coalition's "Guilty Party" campaign did much to stoke this anger, targeting many ministers in the Kirner Government and providing examples of concerns in their portfolios. The Coalition won the election in a landslide, scoring a 19-seat swing – the second-worst defeat that a sitting government has ever suffered in Victoria. The Liberals won enough seats that they could have governed in their own right. Kirner remained Opposition Leader until March 1993 and resigned from Parliament in May 1994.
Jim Kennan was a member of parliament between 1982 and 1993, initially in the Victorian Legislative Council, and then in the Legislative Assembly and was Deputy Premier of Victoria from 1990 to 1992. He became the Leader of the Opposition after Kirner resigned in March 1993, until his shock retirement from Parliament three months later.
Kennan was succeeded as leader by John Brumby, who was a member of the Legislative Council at the time. Brumby transferred to the Legislative Assembly in a by-election for Kennan's seat. The defeat of the federal Labor government in March 1996 prompted Kennett to call an early state election three weeks later. Labor led by Brumby only managed a net two-seat gain, leaving it 20 seats behind the Coalition. Brumby was replaced as Labor leader in March 1999 by Steve Bracks. To everyone's surprise, Bracks won the September 1999 election,[13] which produced a hung parliament and the independents agreed to support the minority Labor government. Labor won the 2002 state election in a landslide, taking 62 seats out of 88 in the Legislative Assembly, also winning a slim majority in the Legislative Council. In 2002, Labor reformed the Legislative Council and brought in four-year fixed-term parliaments.[14] Labor made inroads towards same-sex equality in Victoria. Since 2001, Victorian Labor governments have amended 60 Acts to advance same-sex equality.
Labor won a third term at the 2006 state election. Bracks resigned as party leader and Premier on 27 July 2007, and Labor deputy leader, John Thwaites also announced his resignation on the same day. John Brumby was elected unopposed Labor leader on 30 July 2007 and became Premier. One notable achievement of the Brumby government was abortion law reform in 2008. It also signed contracts for the Wonthaggi desalination plant in 2009, to drought-proof the State.
At the 2010 state election Labor was narrowly defeated, winning only 43 of the 88 Legislative Assembly seats.
Brumby resigned as party leader soon after the Labor loss at the 2010 state election, to be replaced by Daniel Andrews on 3 December 2010.
After being in Opposition for one term, Labor won the 2014 state election from the Napthine Government, winning 47 seats in the Legislative Assembly. On winning office, the Andrews government cancelled the East West Link project and initiated the Level Crossing Removal program and the Melbourne Metro Rail project. On 24 May 2016 Andrews made an official apology in parliament for gay men in Victoria punished during the time homosexuality was a crime in the state.[15] In September 2016, the Andrews government privatized the Port of Melbourne for a term of 50 years in return for more than $9.7 billion,[16] to be used for infrastructure improvements.
At the 2018 state election, the Andrews Government was returned for a second term with an increased majority, winning 55 seats in the Legislative Assembly,[17] and 18 of the 40 seats in the Legislative Council.
At the 2022 state election, the Andrews Government was returned for a third term with a further increase in their majority, winning 56 seats in the Legislative Assembly,[18] and a decreased 15 out of the 40 seats in the Legislative Council.
On 14 June 2020, The Age and Nine Network released covert recordings purporting to show state minister Adem Somyurek organising branch stacking within Victorian Labor. [19]
On 17 June 2020, former Labor Premier Steve Bracks and former federal Labor deputy leader Jenny Macklin were appointed as administrators of Victorian Labor by the party's National Executive until early 2021. The pair will review the state party’s operations and provide detailed recommendations to tackle the issue of branch-stacking within the party.[20] Additionally, voting rights of all members were suspended and preselection processes in Victoria will be controlled by the National Executive until 2023.
Shortly following the revelation, Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission (IBAC) and Victorian Ombudsman (VO) announced a joint collaboration and investigation into branch stacking activities known as "Operation Watts".[21][22] Hearings began in October 2021 and lasted for four weeks. On the first day of hearings on 11 October, Byrne admitted to branch stacking and said that state minister Luke Donnellan was also involved in branch stacking.[23] In July 2022, IBAC and VO released their report on the branch stacking investigation. They found that there were "extensive misconduct" by Victorian Labor MPs from the Moderate Labor faction, even though branch stacking was found in all factions.[24][25]
As a result of National Executive taking over preselection processes in June 2020, candidates for the 2022 federal and state elections were chosen by the National Executive instead of local rank-and-file members. Nominations would be made by factional leaders of the state party.[26] The takeover had been criticised by unions and rank-and-file members. A coalition of up to 10 unions unsuccessfully challenged the move in Victorian Supreme Court, which in October 2021, ruled it to be lawful.[27]

While the National Executive of the ALP is responsible for national campaign strategy, each state and territory is an autonomous branch and is responsible for campaigning in its own jurisdiction for federal, state and local elections. Although many National ALP ideologies were influenced by Victorian Branch.
Like all ALP State and territory branches, the membership of the Victorian branch consists of both individual members and affiliated trade unions, who between them decide the party's policies, and elect its governing bodies. Subject to national executive oversight powers, local branches choose candidates for public office, in a process called preselection.[28][29][30]
The members and unions elect delegates to state conferences, which decide policy, and elect the state executive, state president (an honorary position usually held for a one-year term), and a state secretary, which is a full-time professional position. There are also full-time assistant secretary and organisers. In the past the ratio of conference delegates coming from the branches and affiliated unions has varied from state to state, however under recent national reforms at least 50% of delegates at all state and territory conferences must be elected by branches.
Clofoctol is a bacteriostatic antibiotic. It is used in the treatment of respiratory tract and ear, nose and throat infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria.[1]
It has been marketed in France till 2005 under the trade name Octofene and in Italy as Gramplus.[citation needed]
It is only functional against Gram-positive bacteria.[2]
It penetrates into human lung tissue.[3]
A French company, Apteeus had been developing clofoctol as a potential therapy against SARS-CoV-2 in 2020-2021, but eventually the repurposing of the drug was abandoned, due to a lack of volunteers.[4][5]

This systemic antibiotic-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Gail G. Hanson, born 22 February 1947 in Dayton, Ohio[1] is an American experimental particle physicist.
Hanson received her PhD from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1973.[2] She spent sixteen years at SLAC, first as a research assistant and then as a permanent staff member.[3] Whilst there, Hanson participated in the discovery of the J/psi meson and tau lepton.  Her work led to the first evidence for quark jet production in electron-positron annihilation,[4] for which she was awarded the 1996 Panofsky Prize with Roy Schwitters.[3]
In 2002 she was appointed Distinguished Professor of Physics at the University of California, Riverside.[2]
Nils Jorgen Peaks (71°52′S 2°36′W﻿ / ﻿71.867°S 2.600°W﻿ / -71.867; -2.600) is a group of small peaks about 6 nautical miles (11 km) northeast of Mount Schumacher on the Ahlmann Ridge in Queen Maud Land. Mapped by Norwegian cartographers from surveys and air photos by Norwegian-British-Swedish Antarctic Expedition (NBSAE) (1949–52) and air photos by the Norwegian expedition (1958–59). Named for Nils Jorgen Schumacher, senior meteorologist with the NBSAE.
 This article incorporates public domain material from "Nils Jørgen Peaks". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.  

This Princess Martha Coast location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A highway location marker is the modern-day equivalent of a milestone. Unlike traditional milestones, however, which (as their name suggests) were originally carved from stone and sited at one-mile intervals, modern highway location markers are made from a variety of materials and are almost invariably spaced at intervals of a kilometre or a fraction thereof (except in the United States, where miles are used on roadways). In some countries they may be known as driver location signs, milestones or kilometre stones.
Until the beginning of the twentieth century, highways were usually named rather than numbered.[1] 
In most cases they had the name of the town or city to which they headed, for example The Old Portsmouth Road.  Other ancient highway names include The Pilgrims Way, Watling Street and the Via Appia.
However, with the increase in private traffic after the First World War a simpler way of identifying roads was needed. Different countries adopted different ways of identifying roads. Under the 1966 Local Government Act Great Britain [excluding Northern Ireland] adopted a system of road numbering so that each roads had a unique number across the entire country. The relative importance of the road was identified by a "A" or a "B" prefix.[2]
In France roads that were in the care of the national government were prefixed by "RN" (later just "N") and had a number that was unique across all of France. Roads that were maintained by departments had a number that was prefixed by "D" and were unique within the department concerned while roads that were maintained by communes had numbers that were prefixed by a "C" were unique within a commune. The advent of motorways meant an extension to both the British and the French methods of roads identification.
Highway location markers often have the route identifier marked on them.
Location identification is achieved by the highway location markers having numbers on them – usually the distance from some reference point.
A highway may be divided into more than one sector, with different sector having different numbering sequences (though it is possible, as will be explained later for two sectors to share a sequence). Sector boundaries could be the boundaries of a state (as is the case of the United States Interstate highway system), or could be the middle of a large town or any one of a number of other locations.
Each one of  numbering sequence is defined by its reference point and all the numbers within one sequence having a fixed relationship to the reference point and hence to each other (such as being at 0.1 km intervals). The reference point might be the start of the highway, it might be the start of the sector or it might be some artificial point that is located before the start of the highway. Such artificial points include the Zero Milestone in Washington, D.C., and Charing Cross in London.
In some countries such as Spain or the United States, highway exit numbers are identified using location identifiers.
If a highway is rerouted, then invariably its length changes.  This can be handled in one of three ways:
Until the advent of dual carriageways, it was seldom necessary to identify the actual carriageway. When this was necessary, the carriageway was often identified informally in terms of the town or city to which the carriageway is heading or by using one of the points of the compass. However, the use of highway location markers to pinpoint accidents made it necessary to identify the correct carriageway in an unambiguous manner so that the emergency services could get to the scene of the accident with minimal delay.
These location marker examples have been chosen because each has a novel feature over and above route and location identification.
Major British dual-carriageway roads have marker posts at 100-metre intervals. These posts, which are used for administrative purposes, give the distance in kilometres from some reference point. The digits on the posts are not designed to be used by the general public. There are no fixed rules for determining the reference points: they may be the centre of a city, an administrative boundary or follow some other rule. Marker posts on motorways also have arrows that point to the closest emergency telephone.
The advent of the mobile phone required a government rethink regarding marker posts. This has led to the erection of driver location signs in England (but at the time of writing, not in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland)[4]
at about 500 metre (about 1/3 mile) intervals on many motorways.
Driver location signs have three pieces of information:
The location is identical to the location given on marker posts. The most commonly used carriageway identifiers are the letters "A", "B", "J", "K", "L" and "M".[5]
The letter "A" normally denotes the carriageway in the direction of increasing location numbers (usually away from London), "B" the carriageway in the direction of decreasing location numbers while "J", "K", "L" and "M" denote junction slip roads.
Location reference indicator (LRI) signs are provided on motorways and dual carriageway national roads. They indicate the route number of the route being travelled on, the direction of travel (N, S, E, and W for north, south, east and west) and the distance from the start point of the route. LRI signs are placed every 500 metres.
LRI signs are supplemented with location reference markings (LRM), which are road markings painted in the hard shoulder parallel to the road. They contain the same information as LRIs, though the letter from the route number is omitted. They are placed every 100 metres and also indicate the direction to the nearest emergency telephone.[6]
As the name suggests, Dutch hectometre markers are spaced at 100-metre intervals. In addition to showing the motorway number and location, they also bear a carriageway identifier – Li for Links (Left) and Re for Rechts (Right). The carriageways are identified as being left-hand and right-hand as viewed by somebody looking in the direction of increasing location numbers. By and large, Dutch location numbers increase as one moves away from Amsterdam, or in the case of roads that do not originate in Amsterdam, location numbers increase as one moves eastwards away from the North Sea. Carriageway identifiers "a", "b", "c" and "d" are used to identify slip roads on and off the motorway.
Another novel concept on Dutch hectometre markers is that speed limits are displayed on the marker boards when the speed limit is less than the (previous) national default of 120 km/h. This is shown on the accompanying illustration. Pictures of the normal boards can be found in the Dutch language article.
Except in California (discussed below), mileposts are placed on interstate highways (and other major routes in some states) at one-mile intervals that indicate the distance through a state. Mileposts normally start at the western or southern point of entry of the route into the state, or the southern or western terminus of the route within the state, and increase heading north or east. Many states have added supplemental reference markers that indicate distance in fractional miles (tenth, quarter, half, etc.) in addition to mileposts for whole miles, either across the entire state or in select regions of the state.
California uses a postmile[7] system on all of its state highways, including U.S. Routes and Interstate Highways. The postmile markers indicate the distance a route travels through individual counties, as opposed to mile markers that indicate the distance travelled through a state. Multiple other states, including Nevada, Ohio, and Tennessee, use similar county-based mile markers on non-interstates, but use standard mileposts on interstate routes.
New York reference markers are plates 8 in by 10 in (252 mm by 200 mm) that have three rows of numbers. Since the lettering is small (60 mm, 2.4 in), they are designed for use by highway engineers rather than motorists. The first row displays the route number, the second row the NYSDOT Region, and the third row the control segment and distance from the segment start. The control segment has one digit while the distance from the start of the segment has three digits and is given in units of tenths of a mile. Vermont uses a similar reference marker system on non-interstate routes.
The Indian location markers carry a number of different distances. The marker illustrated carries the following information:
Although the sign illustrated uses Latin script, a number of Indian location markers use the Indian official language Hindi or the predominant language of the state in which they are located.
Malaysia has its own unique set of location markers in kilometre and hectometre (100-metre intervals). They include the route code, location number from the road starting point and sometimes direction of the carriageway. Green background are for toll expressways and blue backgrounds are for non-tolled highways.
On the other hand, federal roads have marker which are placed every kilometre and includes the distance to primary destination and location number. Every five kilometres however the marker includes the route code, distance to primary destination, distance to secondary destination and location number.
Roads often have two or more numbers. This can happen where two highway designations run concurrently, or share the same piece of road for part of their route or when the same road is numbered by two different authorities. Certain road authorities prefer to only display a single route identifier on their roads, but others display both route identifiers on their roads.
A common example of roads numbering by different authorities is the numbering of the European routes—all such routes have local numbers in addition to the "E number" allocated by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE),[8] though is some cases, such as Sweden, the local route numbers have been changed to match the "E" numbers.
The picture shows a typical route marker in Europe (in this case Belgium) where both the European route number and the national number are displayed on the same location marker. The style of the route marker, apart from the green E-route indicator, is specific to the country concerned.
A sustainability declaration was a checklist of sustainability features that was required to be completed by home-owners and vendors in Queensland, Australia before a home could be sold.[1][2] The checklist identifies the property's environmental and social sustainability features in the four areas of energy, water, safety, and access.[3]
Home owners must complete these sustainability checklists or risk being fined up to $4000. Advertising for homes must also include details about where the Sustainability Declaration for the property can be viewed.[4]
Properties that have a larger number of sustainability features generate fewer greenhouse gas emissions, use less energy for heating and cooling, use less water and are more comfortable to live in. They also can have fewer operating costs and be more energy and water efficient.
Sustainability Declaration now no longer needed for Queensland home owners as of August 2012.[citation needed]
This Queensland article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Borgu Game Reserve is a section of the Kainji National Park, in the Borgu Local Government Area of Niger State and Baruten Local 
Government Area of Kwara State, Nigeria.
It is bordered on the east by Kainji Lake and reaches almost to the border with Benin to the west, covering 397,002 hectares (981,010 acres).[1] It was amalgamated with the Zugurma Game Reserve in 1975 to form the Kainji Lake National Park.[2]
10°02′28″N 4°03′36″E﻿ / ﻿10.041°N 4.060°E﻿ / 10.041; 4.060

This Niger State, Nigeria location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Der Kriegspielers Fantastiques was a line of fantasy miniature figures that were produced by Custom Cast and then Heritage Models beginning in the 1970s.
American miniature sculptor Duke Seifried founded his own company, Der Kriegspielers ("The Wargamers") in the 1950s to make Napoleonic figures for retail sale.[1]
In the late 1960s, Seifried corresponded briefly with J.R.R. Tolkien; later, when he was in England on business, he arranged to meet with the author. During his visit, Seifried offered to sculpt "some pewter Hobbits, Dwarves and Goblins" for Tolkien.[1] Tolkien apparently liked the idea, and he and Seifried made some rough sketches on the spot. When Siefried returned to the United States, he had Tim Kirk, a young artist with the American Greeting Card Company, create some professional renderings of the sketches from which Siefried could then sculpt 25 mm miniatures. Tolkien died before Seifried was finished, but Seifried forged ahead with the project.[1]
In 1972, he formed the company Custom Cast in Dayton, Ohio. In late 1974, Custom Cast released a new line of 25 mm figures called Der Kriegspielers Fantastiques ("The Fantasy Wargamers"), and the first product was a set of miniatures based on characters from Tolkien's The Fellowship of the Ring.[2] Coinciding with both the publication of the first fantasy role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons in 1974, and the continuing popularity of The Lord of the Rings in the United States, Der Kriegspielers Fantastiques proved to be very popular, and the Fellowship of the Ring line sold 10,000 units very quickly.[1] Seifried quickly followed up with other Tolkienesque figures before branching off into more generic fantasy figures.
Although Der Kriegspielers Fantastiques was the first very successful fantasy miniature line in the United States, it was not the first to be sold in the United States. As historian Shannon Applecline noted in the 2014 book Designers and Dragons, "US miniatures maker Jack Scruby beat Seifried to the fantasy punch with a 30mm line that he sold at Gen Con VII (1974)."[3]: 305 
Custom Cast later merged with Heritage Models, which continued to produce figures for the Fantastique line, even after Siefried left the company to work at TSR.[1]
In the February–March 1978 edition of White Dwarf (Issue #5), John Norris thought that the Tolkienesque figures of the Fantastiques line "should be of particular interest to Tolkien addicts, because they are by far the most suitable range currently available for wargames set in his Middle Earth." He also thought the figures would be of use to other fantasy role-players not using a Middle Earth setting, saying they would "find that the personality figures, and indeed many of the ordinary ones, make excellent character figures, while dungeon owners will find the range a prolific source of 'monsters' with which to populate the dungeon and the surrounding wilderness." Norris thought the quality of the small 25 mm figures was "generally good, except for the few very large ones, which are nearly all poor. The strongest point of the range is its variety. Not only does it cover all the major types, but it also provides an excellent selection of figures for each one."[4]
Viivi Pumpanen (born 20 July 1988) is a Finnish actress, model and beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Miss Finland 2010, the official representative of Finland to the 2010 Miss Universe pageant. [2]
Born in Vantaa, Pumpanen was Miss Helsinki in 2009.
As the 71st Miss Finland, Pumpanen accepted the crown from Essi Pöysti, the 2009 titleholder, on 17 January 2010 and said "I have been dreaming about this since I was eight years old. My mother and father have been supporting me."[1]
She competed in the Miss Universe 2010 pageant on 23 August 2010 in Las Vegas, Nevada.
In 2011, Pumpanen won television dance competition Tanssii tähtien kanssa, the Finnish version of Strictly Come Dancing. Her professional partner was Matti Puro.
On 11 December 2023, she was revealed as one of the hosts of Uuden Musiikin Kilpailu 2024, the Finnish selection for the Eurovision Song Contest 2024, alongside Pilvi Hämäläinen [fi] and Benjamin.[3]

This Finnish biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biography article about a European contestant in a beauty pageant is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Steven E. Winberg is an American businessman and government official who served as the Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy from November 2017 to January 2021.[1]
Winberg previously served as vice president for research and development at Consol Energy and as a senior program manager with the Battelle Memorial Institute. Winberg was the board chair for the FutureGen Industrial Alliance, a coalition of power producers, coal producers, and equipment manufacturers which was established to pursue a public/private partnership to build the world's first near-zero emissions coal-fueled power plant. Winberg holds two patents related to NOx emissions reduction using coal and natural gas.[2][3][4]
Although having had to admit that coal was no longer considered viable for the production of electricity Steven Winberg, in 2020, pointed out the actual carbon value of coal including metals, which can be extracted from coal ash, and their value for the production of electronic equipment. He presented a range of products at the annual American Legislative Exchange Council meeting and later at the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources where he demonstrated the use of coal in coal-based carbon foam, decking material and roofing tiles and the prospect, in the foreseeable future, to build a fire-proof house with coal.[5]
In October 2020, Winberg signed a "memorandum of cooperation in the field of carbon capture, utilization and storage and carbon recycling" with Japan as another step to combat climate change.[6]
Steven Winberg is married to Anne and has two daughters.[7][8]

This biography of a person who has held a non-elected position in the federal government of the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kilian Albrecht (Bulgarian: Килиан Албрехт; born 13 April 1973 in Vorarlberg) is an Austrian former alpine skier who represented both Austria and Bulgaria.  He competed for Austria at the 2002 Olympics and for Bulgaria at the 2010 Olympics.[1]  His best result was a 4th-place finish in the slalom in 2002, missing a medal by only .04 of a second.[2]
Albrecht has won two medals, both silvers, on the FIS World Cup.  Both have been in slalom.  The first was in 2000 at Kitzbuehel, the second in 2002 at Sestriere.[3]
Since retiring, Albrecht has gone into sports management, most notably managing slalom World Cup winner, World Champion and Olympic champion Mikaela Shiffrin.[4] In 2009, Albrecht was elected chairman of the International Ski Federation's Athletes' Commission for four years. He was succeeded in 2013 by cross-country skier Kikkan Randall. Albrecht is currently manager of slalom star Mikaela Shiffrin.[5]

This biographical article relating to alpine skiing in Austria is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article relating to alpine skiing in Bulgaria is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
John D. Campbell
John Miller
The 1931 Invercargill mayoral election was part of the New Zealand local elections held that same year. The polling was conducted using the standard first-past-the-post electoral method.
Incumbent mayor John D. Campbell was narrowly defeated by the former mayor John Miller.
The following table gives the election results:
Karl Leo (born 10 July 1960 in Freiburg im Breisgau, Baden-Württemberg, Germany) is a German physicist.
Leo studied physics at the Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg and obtained the Diplomphysiker degree with a thesis on solar cells under supervision of Adolf Goetzberger at the Fraunhofer-Institut für Solare Energiesysteme. In 1986 he joined the
Max-Planck-Institut für Festkörperforschung in Stuttgart for a PhD under the guidance of Hans Queisser.
He then joined AT&T Bell Laboratories in Holmdel (New Jersey) as a postdoctoral research associate. In 1991 he joined the RWTH Aachen as an assistant professor and obtained the Habilitation degree. In 1993 he joined the Technische Universitaet Dresden as a professor of optoelectronics. Since 2002 he has been also with the Fraunhofer-Institut für Photonische Mikrosysteme, currently as director.
Leo works in the field of semiconductor optics and the physics of thin organic films. In 1992 he discovered Bloch oscillations in a semiconductor superlattice. His work on organic semiconductors led to Organic Light Emitting Diodes with the highest power efficiencies reported and to Organic Solar Cells with leading efficiency values.[1] In 2002 he won the Leibniz award, which is Germany's most prestigious scientific award.[2] In 2021, he was awarded the European Inventor Award in the 'Lifetime Achievement' category.[3]
Döküktaş is a village in the Hizan District of Bitlis Province in Turkey.[1] Its population is 1,055 (2021).[2]

This article about an Eastern Anatolia Region of Turkey location is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ghost Dance is the third studio album by The Pine Hill Haints. It was released in 2007 on K Records.
The Pine Hill Haints are
And
Along With
"I'm Only in It for the Love" is a song written by Kix Brooks, Deborah Allen and Rafe Van Hoy, and recorded by American country music artist John Conlee.  It was released in June 1983 as the first single from the album In My Eyes.  The song was Conlee's fourth number one on the country chart.  The single went to number one for one week and spent a total of twelve weeks on the country chart.[1]

This 1983 country song-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Self-Portrait is a 1593 oil on canvas painting by Annibale Carracci, now in the Galleria Nazionale di Parma.[1] It is dated 17 April 1593 on the top left of the canvas.
Based on the signed date of the painting, Carracci would have been 33 years old. That time was the period of his greatest artistic success: Carracci had just completed Story of the Foundation of Rome [it] with his cousin Ludovico Carracci for the Palazzo Magnani in Bologna. Several years later in 1595, he moved to Rome. The reason for this self-portrait is unknown, whether Carracci completed it for himself or a person he cared about.
The painting entered the Galleria Nazionale di Parma after its acquisition by Margherita Dall'Aglio, widow of Bodoni, in December 1841. Quintavalle interpreted the written date of the portrait's completion as "4 di Aprile 1593." Later, that interpretation was corrected by art historian Posner as "17 di Aprile 1593."[2]
The painting has always been titled as a self-portrait, based on oral tradition. As reported by Anna Ottavi Cavina, there are a number of 17th-century Carracci prints and drawings that depict his practice of self-portraiture.[3]
Annibale Carracci is depicted as a half bust, close-up, with a wide-brimmed felt hat and wearing a dark tabard. The composition is cropped to concentrate attention on his face: his short hair, intense gaze, and the confident expression emerge from a neutral background. Studies have compared this self-portrait with that of Annibale's brother Agostino Carracci, now at the Uffizi, and how their self-portraits show the different characters of the two artists.[4] The Annibale's self-portrait is "contemptuous of all exterior decoration, with enough to go around ... not very clean ... with a coat messily wrapped",[5] while the Agostino's depicts an intellectual with refined features, a musician, and a poet.
The Revolutionary Communist League (RCL) or HaLiga Kommunistit HaMahapchanit was a Trotskyist party in Mandatory Palestine in the late 1930s and 1940s.
It was built out of three components: exiled German Jewish members of Heinrich Brandler’s KPO (Communist Party Opposition – which emerged from the Right Opposition within the Comintern) who became supporters of the International Left Opposition; youth in the Hugim Marxistiim (Marxist Circles), the youth section of a wing of Left Poale Zion, which at the time was linked to the 'centrist' London Bureau; and elements coming from the left Zionist kibbutz movement, Hashomer Hatzair, which was also linked to the London Bureau. Later, in the 1940s, they were joined by Jabra Nicola, an Arab Communist who broke with the Palestine Communist Party over the Molotov–Ribbentrop pact.
The Brit Kommunistim Mahapchanin published a newspaper, Kol Hama’amad (Voice of the Class).[1]
Tony Cliff was a member, before moving to Britain and joining the RCL's sister party in the Fourth International, the Revolutionary Communist Party (UK) and later leading the International Socialists.
The Destruction of Small Ideas is the third studio album by 65daysofstatic. It was released on April 30, 2007, in the United Kingdom, May 1, 2007 in the United States on Monotreme, and April 23, 2007, in Japan on Zankyo.
"Don't Go Down to Sorrow" was the first single from the album, released in the UK on April 9, in the United States on April 17, and in Japan on March 23.
A double-gatefold vinyl version of the album was released on 12 November 2007, also through Monotreme Records.[9]
On its release the album's production was criticised by some reviewers,[1] but the band have stated in an interview that this was intentional and directly influenced by an article written by Nick Southall for Stylus Magazine.[10]
Dextrinoporus is a fungal genus in the family Polyporaceae. It was circumscribed by mycologists Hai-Sheng Yuan and Wen-Min Qin in 2018 to contain the single poroid species Dextrinoporus aquaticus. This white-rot wood-decay fungus is found in southwestern China.
The type collection was discovered fruiting on an angiosperm trunk in Dayaoshan Nature Reserve in Jinxiu County, Guangxi. The generic name refers to the dextrinoid reaction of the hyphal trama with Melzer's reagent; the specific epithet aquaticus alludes to the watery texture of fresh fruit bodies. Dextrinoporus occupies an isolated phylogenetic position in the "core polyporoid clade" (a phylogenetic grouping roughly equivalent to the Polyporaceae), related to the clade containing the crust fungi Lopharia cinerascens and Dentocorticium sulphurellum.[1]
Dextrinoporus fruit bodies are shelf-like and broadly attached to the substrate, measuring up to 15 cm (5.9 in) broad, 7 cm (2.8 in) wide and 4 cm (1.6 in) thick at the base. The dimensions of the watery fresh specimens decrease substantially upon drying, becoming up to one-third of the original size. The pores on the underside of the cap are angular to irregular in outline, and number 1–2 per millimetre.[1]
Microscopic characteristics of Dextrinoporus include: a monomitic hyphal structure featuring thick-walled, dextrinoid generative hyphae with clamp connections; presence of dendrohyphidia in the hymenium; and ellipsoid, thin-walled spores.[1]
Other polypores with morphological similarities to D. aquaticus include Spongipellis spumeus , Tyromyces chioneus, and Oligoporus tephroleucus.[1]
Jo Ishq Ki Marzi Woh Rab Ki Marzi is an Indian television series that premiered on Sahara One on 9 March 2009.[1] The story revolves around the lives of two 'Zamindar' (rich landlords) families who turn from friends to enemies.[2]
François-Philippe Brais, CC CBE QC (October 18, 1894 – January 2, 1972) was a Canadian lawyer and politician.
Born in Montreal, the son of Émilien Brais and Blanche Brunet, he studied at McGill University. He was called to the Quebec Bar in 1917 and began a legal career in private practice, specialising in insurance law. From 1922 to 1930, he was a Crown prosecutor in Montreal, being appointed King's Counsel in 1927.[1]  He appeared several times in the Supreme Court of Canada.  He eventually served on many corporate boards, including the board of the Canadian Pacific Railway and Sun Life Insurance.  He also served on the boards of  many non-profit and charitable organizations, such as the Montreal Children's Hospital.
In 1940, Brais was appointed to the Legislative Council of Quebec representing the Grandville division. He served until the Council was abolished in 1968. In 1940, he was made a Minister without Portfolio in the cabinet of Liberal Premier of Quebec Adélard Godbout.
Brais was President of the Canadian Bar Association from 1944 until 1945.[2]  He then served as bâtonnier of the Montreal Bar in 1949, and bâtonnier of the provincial Barreau, 1949–1950.[1]
In 1943, Brais was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. In 1945 the Université de Montréal awarded him a doctorate in law, honoris causa.  In 1953, the Université Laval awarded him a second honorary doctorate in law.[1] In 1970, he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada.
Brais died on January 2, 1972, at Cowansville.  He was buried on January 5, 1972, at Notre-Dame-des-Neiges Cemetery in Montreal.

This article about a Quebec politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Pierre Bergounioux (born 1949 in Brive-la-Gaillarde, Corrèze) is a French writer. He won the 1986 Prix Alain-Fournier for his second novel, Ce pas et le suivant. And in 2002, he won the SGDL literary grand prize for his body of work.

English translations of Pierre Bergounioux: 
Three of his novellas have been translated by Claude Neuman: The Line (La ligne – Verdier, 1997), Would-Be Hunter (Chasseur à la manque - Gallimard, 2010) and Childishnesses (Enfantillages – L’Herne, 2019). These translations have been published in 2022 under the collective title Of Fish and Game and Butterflies by Editions www.ressouvenances.fr. ISBN 978-2-84505-289-5
Timothy A. Guden is a former United States Army soldier. Over a 33-year career, he served as the Command Sergeant Major for the United States Army Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia, from August 2012 to March 2014, the Command Sergeant Major of the Maneuver Center of Excellence and Fort Benning, Georgia, from March 2014 to May 2015, the Command Sergeant Major of the Joint Force Headquarters-National Capital Region from June 2015 to July 2016, Command Sergeant Major of the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, from August 2016 to June 2018, and the Command Sergeant Major of the United States Army Training and Doctrine Command from February 2018 to September 2020.[1] Guden retired from the Army on September 3, 2020.[2]
Born in Medford, Wisconsin, Guden enlisted in the United States Army on July 28, 1987. He completed Basic Combat Training at Fort Jackson (South Carolina), and subsequently Advanced Individual Training at Fort Gordon, Georgia. Throughout his career, he has held numerous leadership positions ranging from team leader to brigade command sergeant major in Signal, Cavalry, Aviation, Intelligence, Armor and Infantry units.[2] He served as the brigade operations sergeant major for the 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division; the battalion command sergeant major for 1st Battalion, 22nd Infantry Regiment; and the command sergeant major for the 2nd Battalion, 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment. Guden then served as the brigade command sergeant major for the 2nd Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division.
His combat deployments include four tours in Iraq, one tour in Afghanistan, and one tour in the Persian Gulf during Operations Desert Shield/Desert Storm.[2]
Guden is married to his wife, Anne Guden, both of whom live together in North Carolina, post his retirement. They have two sons and two daughters. Also, an adoptive daughter. 
Guden has received the following awards:
Construction Workers Solidarity (CWS) is a political organization in the Philippines which seeks to represent the interests of construction workers.[1] Following the 2019 Philippine House of Representatives elections, CWS secured one seat through the party-list vote. The CWS was established in the 1990s.[2]
CWS Party List has filed its Certificate of Candidacy for the 2022 Philippine Elections[3] on October 5, 2021.[1] The CWS has pledged to continue the implementation of the Build! Build! Build! program of President Rodrigo Duterte's administration which has been overseen by DPWH secretary Mark Villar.[1] CWS Party-list being part of 19th Congress got 412,333 total of votes last 2022 election and was number 21 on the total vote getters for the party-list election of the Philippines. 
congressional seat ENGINEER EDWIN L. GARDIOLA [4] as the representative of the construction workers sector.
CWS Party-list is now represented by Honorable Edwin L. Gardiola as their new congressman at the house of Representatives.[1]
In the 2016 national elections, CWS Party List was allowed by the Commission on Elections (Comelec) to join the elections as an official party list. They were not able to come up with enough votes to secure a seat in the 2016 elections. In the 2019 mid-term elections,[5] CWS Party List joined anew and was able to secure a congressional seat with former Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Undersecretary Romeo S. Momo[6] as the representative of the construction workers sector.[7][failed verification]
The Construction Workers Solidarity Party List has been involved in furthering the advocacies that involve the construction workers sector as well as does services and provides help beyond it.[2] CWS has provided various forms of assistance[8] in the form of financial, medical transport services, displaced workers cash support, and vaccine provision against the COVID-19 pandemic, among others.
CWS Party List has filed 120 bills that it has principally authored and co-authored 103 bills.
The 1998–99 Buffalo Sabres season was the Sabres' 29th season in the National Hockey League. Miroslav Satan scored 40 goals and the Sabres would add influential centers Stu Barnes and Joe Juneau from the Pittsburgh Penguins and Washington Capitals, respectively. Michal Grosek had the best season of his career, and the team finally returned to the Stanley Cup Finals, which was a losing effort against the Dallas Stars.
In the 1998 NHL Entry Draft, the Sabres picked Dmitri Kalinin with their first-round pick, 18th overall.
[1]
Note: CR = Conference rank; GP = Games played; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; GF = Goals for; GA = Goals against; Pts = Points         Bolded teams qualified for the playoffs.
Divisions: ATL – Atlantic Division, NE – Northeast Division, SE – Southeast Division
bold – Qualified for playoffs; y – Won division

The Toronto Maple Leafs and Buffalo Sabres met in the 1999 Eastern Conference Finals. The Maple Leafs were coming off a six-game series win over the Pittsburgh Penguins, while the Sabres were coming off a six-game series win themselves, over the Boston Bruins. Toronto was having its best playoff since 1994, when they last made a conference final series. Buffalo, on the other hand, was in the third round for the second consecutive year.
In Game 1, Dwayne Roloson filled in for injured Sabres goaltender Dominik Hasek at the Air Canada Centre in Toronto. Leading 3–2 midway through the game, Toronto appeared to be in control, but Stu Barnes tied the game for Buffalo at 14:37 of the second period. The Sabres went on to score twice in the third period, on goals by Curtis Brown at 5:21 and Geoff Sanderson at 11:02. Steve Thomas' goal with 6:01 remaining in the game brought Toronto to within one, but Buffalo held on to win 5–4. Roloson impressed the critics, stopping 28 of 32 shots.
In Game 2, the Maple Leafs scored two goals 18 seconds apart in the first period, as Steve Sullivan scored at 10:28 followed by Sylvain Cote at 10:46. With just over ten minutes to go in the game, Toronto held a 4–3 lead with Buffalo pressing. Steve Thomas' goal at with 7:43 to go gave the Maple Leafs a 5–3 lead and Garry Valk sealed the 6–3 win with an empty-net goal at 19:30.
With series tied at 1–1, the two teams traveled south to the Marine Midland Arena in Buffalo for Games 3 and 4. Dominik Hasek returned for the Sabres in game three, but it was the away team that netted the first goal, as Maple Leafs forward Yanic Perreault scored at 16:08 of the first period. But Buffalo was not to be denied, and they scored three goals in the first 7:38 of the second period. Alexander Karpovtsev scored at 13:09 of the second to pull the Maple Leafs to within one, but they could not score the equalizer and Curtis Brown iced the game with an empty-net goal at 19:31 of the third period and the Sabres won, 4–2. Dominik Hasek made 24 saves in the victory.
Buffalo came out flying again in Game 4, holding a 5–0 lead after two periods. Hasek's shutout bid was erased when Mats Sundin scored on a penalty shot at 6:59. He scored again with 1:57 remaining in the game as Buffalo won, 5–2. This time, Hasek made 31 saves.
In Game 5 at the Air Canada Centre on May 31, the Sabres looked to advance to the Stanley Cup Finals for the first time since 1975. After a scoreless first period, Steve Sullivan got Toronto on the board first just 33 seconds into the second. After goals by Curtis Brown, Kris King and Vaclav Varada, the game was tied 2–2 after two periods. Erik Rasmussen broke the tie with a goal at 11:35 of the third period. With less than two minutes remaining, the Maple Leafs got a power play and pulled Joseph to get a six-on-four situation, but could not score on Hasek. Dixon Ward added a shorthanded empty-net goal with 1:02 remaining as the Sabres went on to win 4–2 and take the series four games to one. With the victory, they advanced to the Stanley Cup Finals for the first time since 1975.
In Game 6, Dallas Stars winger Brett Hull's triple-overtime goal — as Hull's skate was visibly in Dominik Hasek's crease — ended the series, and the Stars were awarded the Cup. In 1999, it was illegal to score a goal if an offensive player's skate entered the crease before the puck did. At the time, even Dallas Morning News hockey writer Keith Gave questioned the legality of the goal. NHL officials, however, maintained that Hull's two shots in the goal mouth constituted a single possession of the puck since the puck deflected off Hasek, and their ruling stood, citing that they "were going to change the rule the following year anyway."  It is widely speculated that, by the time the Sabres mentioned the foul, the red carpet had already been unrolled at center ice, and the officials refused to acknowledge the non-call, also due to NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman's desires to see a team "South of the Mason–Dixon line" hoist the Stanley Cup. ESPN has ranked the call as the fifth worst officiating call in sports history.[3] Conversely, Al Strachan of the Toronto Sun wrote, "There should have been no controversy whatsoever. When Hull first kicked the rebound on to his stick, he had neither foot in the crease. At the instant he kicked the puck, he became in control of it. It was only in the follow-through of that kick that his left foot moved into the crease."[4] Buffalo sports fans, who have suffered through some of the biggest misfortunes in sports history (such as "Wide Right" and "Music City Miracle"), refer to the game as "No Goal," a phrase still used in western New York to this day, even having bumper stickers saying the phrase. The rule was changed for the following season, allowing players to be inside the goaltender's crease as long as they do not interfere with the goalie.
  Win (2 points)
  Loss (0 points)
  Tie (1 point)
  Win
  Loss
Dominik Hasek was also a nominee for the Hart Memorial Trophy and Lester B. Pearson Trophy.
Buffalo's draft picks at the 1998 NHL Entry Draft held at the Marine Midland Arena in Buffalo, New York.[11]
The Passion of John Ruskin is a Canadian short film released in 1994 based on the love life of writer and critic John Ruskin.  It is directed by Alex Chapple, starring Mark McKinney as Ruskin, and Neve Campbell as his first wife Effie Gray.  The film focuses on Ruskin's persistence to not consummate his marriage with Gray.  
This film suggests that Ruskin is surprised and disgusted by Gray's pubic hair, because his expectation of the female body was based on Classical art and prepubescent girls.

This short film–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article related to a Canadian film of the 1990s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Porrex II was a legendary king of the Britons as recounted in Geoffrey of Monmouth's Historia Regum Britanniae. He came to power in 257BC.[1]
He was the son of Coel and the grandson of Catellus; he was succeeded by his son, Cherin.[2][3]
In some versions of the story, his father was King Millus.
Yıldız is a neighbourhood in the municipality and district of Beypazarı, Ankara Province, Turkey.[1] Its population is 61 (2022).[2]

This geographical article about a location in Beypazarı, Ankara, Turkey is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Rosie Kelly (born 16 January 2000) is a New Zealand rugby union player. She plays for Matatū in the Super Rugby Aupiki competition and for Canterbury in the Farah Palmer Cup.
Kelly was born in the West Coast region of the South Island in a small town, she fell in love with rugby at a young age and played with the boys’ team until she was eleven.[1] She attended Christchurch Girls’ High School and was in Year 12 when she was selected in Canterbury's Sevens squad at the end of 2016.[2] She captained her school's first XV's in Year 13 and was a specialist halfback.[2]
Kelly was a member of Canterbury's winning 2017 Farah Palmer Cup squad. In November 2020, she was selected for the NZ Barbarians squad to play the Black Ferns in two matches.[3]
Kelly was named in Matatū's squad for their inaugural season of Super Rugby Aupiki in November 2021.[4] She made Canterbury's squad for the 2022 Farah Palmer Cup season, and started at fly-half in their opening match against Wellington.[5][6]
Kelly featured in Matatū's first Super Rugby Aupiki win as they narrowly beat the Blues 33–31 at the start of the 2023 season.[7][8] She also scored her first Super Rugby try in the final round of the competition, her side lost to Chiefs Manawa 38–46.[9] She started in the grand final when Matatū defeated defending champions, Chiefs Manawa, to win their first title.[10][11]
On 17 April 2023, Kelly was among 34 players who were given Black Ferns contracts in their build up toward the 2025 Rugby World Cup.[12][13] In June, she was named in the Black Ferns 30-player squad to compete in the Pacific Four Series and O’Reilly Cup.[14][15] She made her international debut against Australia on 29 June 2023 at Brisbane.[16][17] She later featured in her sides 21–52 victory over Canada at the Pacific Four Series in Ottawa.
[18][19]
Marius Bianchi (1823–1904) was a French politician. He served as a member of the Chamber of Deputies from 1876 to 1881, representing Orne.[1]

This article about an Orne politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Mousa Al-Awadi (born July 20, 1985 in Amman, Jordan) is a Jordanian professional basketball player who currently plays for Al-Ahli of the Jordanian Premier Basketball League. He also is a member of the Jordan national basketball team.
Al-Awadi competed with the Jordanian team at the FIBA Asia Championship 2007 and FIBA Asia Championship 2009.  In 2009, Al-Awadi helped the Jordanian team to a national best third-place finish by averaging 4.8 points per game off the bench for the team.[1]  The third-place finish meant that Jordan qualified for its first ever FIBA World Championship.[citation needed]

This biographical article relating to a Jordanian basketball figure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Werner Forst (21 December 1892 – 3 February 1971) was a German general during World War II who held several divisional commands. He was a recipient of the  Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves of Nazi Germany.

This biographical article related to the German Army is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Santo Tomé is a municipality in the province of Jaén, Spain.


This article about a location in Andalusia, Spain, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Merril L.[1] Sandoval (April 18, 1925[2] – February 9, 2008) was an American Navajo World War II veteran and a member of the Navajo Code Talkers,[2] a group of United States Marines who transmitted important messages in their native Navajo language in order to stop the Japanese from intercepting sensitive material.[3] Sandoval took part in every Marine landing in the Pacific Ocean theater of World War II from 1943 until 1945.[3]
Merril Sandoval was born on April 18, 1925, in Nageezi, New Mexico.[2] His first language was Navajo. He was later enrolled at Farmington Methodist Mission School in Farmington, New Mexico, where he was taught English and other subjects meant to Americanize himself and other Navajos.[2]
Sandoval's maternal, or first, clan was Zuni Edgewater clan (Naashtʼézhí Tábąąhá), and his paternal, or second, clan was Red Bottom People clan (Tl'aashchi'l).
Sandoval was only a freshman in high school when he was first approached by United States Marine recruiters.[3] His brother, Samuel Sandoval, enlisted. However, Sandoval's father, Julian Sandoval, insisted that Sandoval, who was then sixteen years old, was too young to join the Marines.[3] Sandoval was allowed to join the Marines by his father one year later.[3] He never worked with his brother, Samuel, who was also a code talker during the war.[3]
Sandoval boarded a train to Santa Fe, New Mexico, when he was 17 years old, where he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps in 1943.[2][3] He completed boot camp in San Diego before being transferred to Camp Pendleton's Radio Communication School, where he was trained to become a code talker.[2][3]
He was initially sent to Hawaii by the Marines.[3] Throughout World War II, Sandoval served with both the 2nd and 5th Marine Divisions.[2] Sandoval's main mission was to remain behind the front lines in order to translate reports from two-man code talker teams in other parts of the battlefield.[2] He then sent the messages, which were encoded in Navajo, back to United States commanders who were based on Hawaii.[2] He also had the responsibility of passing orders to Marines on the front lines.[2]
Sandoval saw action in Iwo Jima, Saipan and Allied occupied Japan.[3] During the Battle of Iwo Jima, Sandoval's landing craft was hit by enemy fire. He and his radio company were thrown into the Pacific Ocean.[3] He managed to swim approximately 100 yards to the Iwo Jima beach, where he survived a constant barrage of shelling by the Japanese for the next twenty-four hours.[3]
Sandoval was honorably discharged from the military in March 1946 as a U.S. Marine corporal.[2] He returned to the United States in order to finish high school.[3] Sandoval and other Code Talkers were ordered to keep their work in the Pacific a secret following the war.[3] His own family did not learn about the importance of his missions until information concerning the Navajo Code Talkers was declassified in 1968.[3]
Sandoval married Lorraine Humetewa Shingoitewa in July 1951.[2] They had five children.[2]
Soon after his marriage, he took a job as a machinist at the Garrett AiResearch facility in Phoenix, Arizona, where he worked for 15 years.[2] He and his family moved to Lorraine's hometown of Tuba City, Arizona, on the Navajo Nation in 1963, where he joined the Navajo Tribal Police Force, which he served in for three years.[2] He then became a legal advocate for D.N.A. Legal Services, a nonprofit law firm. He retired from the organization after 23 years.[2] Sandoval then worked as an interpreter for the Navajo legal courts for an additional sixteen years.[2]
As an elderly man, Merril traveled across the country to share his personal story and experiences as a Navajo Code Talker with the US Marine Corps. He continued to travel up until Fall 2007.
Merril Sandoval died on February 9, 2008, at the age of 82 at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Phoenix.[2] He had been in failing health for the preceding year.[2] He and his wife of 56 years, Lorraine, had been residents of Tuba City, Arizona, for many years.[2] He was survived by his wife and four of their five children.[2] He had 17 grandchildren, 22 great-grandchildren and one great-great grandchild.[2][3]
Sandoval received a full military burial in Flagstaff, Arizona.[2] Navajo President Joe Shirley, Jr. ordered flags to be flown at half staff from February 13 to 16 in his honor.[2]
Riverview Airport (FAA LID: 08C) is a privately owned, public use airport located three miles (4.8 km) northwest of Jenison, Michigan. The airport sits on 60 acres (24 ha) of land at an elevation of 603 feet (184 m).[1][2]
The airport is home to the Grand Rapids chapter of the Experimental Aircraft Association. The chapter hosts regular meetings and events each month.[3]
The airport has one runway, designated as runway 14/32. It measures 3,920 by 49 feet (1,195 m × 15 m) and is paved with asphalt. For the 12-month period ending December 31, 2021, the airport averaged 4,992 aircraft operations per year, an average of 96 per week. It was entirely general aviation. For the same time period, 35 aircraft were based at the airport, all airplanes: 34 single-engine and 1 multi-engine.[1][2]
The airport has a fixed-base operator that sells fuel to pilots. It offers limited amenities and a pilot lounge as well.[4][5]
Alan Shoulder (born 4 February 1953) is an English football manager and former player. 
A striker, he began his career with Leeholme Juniors, before joining Bishop Auckland in 1972. In 1977, he joined Blyth Spartans and featured in their run to the fifth round of the FA Cup. In December 1978, he was transferred to Newcastle United for £20,000, where he scored 38 goals in 117 games. In 1982, he joined Carlisle United on a free transfer, then in 1985 joined Hartlepool United, again on a free transfer. An eye injury forced him to retire as a professional player in December 1988, but he continued playing with Ferryhill Athletic. He later became assistant manager at Gretna, and then a coach at Newcastle Blue Star.[3] He has since managed several clubs, including Coundon,[3] Crook Town,[4] Bishop Auckland,[5] Willington,[5] West Auckland Town[6] and Blyth Spartans.[7]
Individual

This biographical article related to association football in England, about a forward born in the 1950s, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A query letter is a formal letter sent by a writer to magazine editors, literary agents and sometimes publishing houses or companies, to propose writing ideas.[1]
For example, a standard requested format for a manuscript query letter to a literary agent could be approximately 200–400 words, expressing the following information:
The literary agent would then decide whether to contact the author and request to see the manuscript, based on the contents of the query letter. In this sense, the query letter is an author's first step toward getting their manuscript published.

This publishing-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This literature-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sextus Lucilius Bassus was the 2nd Roman legate appointed by Emperor Vespasian to Iudaea Province in 71.
Assigned to finish off the last remnants after the First Jewish–Roman War in the province, he led the legion Legio X Fretensis, destroying the Jewish strongholds Herodium and Machaerus on their march to the siege of Masada.
Bassus fell ill and died on the way, however, and was replaced by Lucius Flavius Silva in late 72. 
Before his appointment to Iudaea, Bassus was prefect of the Classis Ravennas and the Classis Misenensis[1]  and betrayed Vitellius by siding with Vespasian during the Year of the Four Emperors (69).

This ancient Roman biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Henry William "Robbie" "Captain" Robinson (October 26, 1893 – ?) was an American college football player and coach. During the First World War, he played for the 1917 Camp Gordon football team.
He was a prominent end for Mike Donahue's Auburn Tigers of Auburn University from 1911 to 1914. He was a member of an All-time Auburn Tigers football team selected in 1935,[1] as well as coach Donahue's all-time Auburn team.[2] He was nominated though not selected for an Associated Press All-Time Southeast 1869-1919 era team.[3]
Robinson was All-Southern in 1913.[4]
He was captain of the 1914 team.[5] One writer claims "Auburn had a lot of great football teams, but there may not have been one greater than the 1913-1914 team."[6]
Robinson assisted coach Bill Alexander and the national champion 1928 Georgia Tech Golden Tornado football team by coaching the ends.[7]
The 1996 Giro d'Italia was the 79th edition of the Giro d'Italia, one of cycling's Grand Tours. The Giro began in Athens, Greece, with a flat stage on 18 May, and Stage 12 occurred on 29 May with a stage from Aulla. The race finished in Milan on 9 June.
30 May 1996 — Aulla to Loano, 195 km (121 mi)[1]
31 May 1996 — Loano to Prato Nevoso, 115 km (71 mi)[1]
1 June 1996 — Sanctuary of Vicoforte to Briançon, 202 km (126 mi)[1]
2 June 1996 — Briançon to Aosta, 235 km (146 mi)[1]
3 June 1996 — Aosta to Lausanne, 180 km (110 mi)[1]
4 June 1996 — Lausanne to Biella, 236 km (147 mi)[1]
5 June 1996 — Meda to Vicenza, 216 km (134 mi)[1]
6 June 1996 — Vicenza to Marostica, 62 km (39 mi) (ITT)[1]
7 June 1996 — Marostica to Passo Pordoi, 220 km (140 mi)[1]
8 June 1996 — Cavalese to Aprica, 250 km (160 mi)[1]
9 June 1996 — Sondrio to Milan, 176 km (109 mi)[1]
Leamsy José Salazar Villafaña is an ex-lieutenant colonel in the Venezuelan Navy who was also the head of security details for Hugo Chávez and Diosdado Cabello.[1][2] Salazar defected to the United States in December 2014 with the assistance of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration providing allegations of Diosdado Cabello heading an organization involved in international drug trade known as the Cartel of the Suns.[1]
Salazar attended the Venezuelan Naval Academy (now Bolivarian Naval Academy) and graduated in 1998.[1] He then specialized in the marines and was stationed in Punto Fijo.[2]
On April 12 in the afternoon was Lieutenant Salazar Villafaña, the one with the flag. Salazar was a great and humble marine ...
—Hugo Chávez [1]
When Hugo Chávez took office in early 1999, Salazar was among the most prestigious, young officers chosen to serve as one Chávez's honor guards.[2] Salazar then not only provided security for Chávez, but was also his personal assistant.[2] Following the 2002 Venezuelan coup d'état attempt, Chávez recognized Salazar as one of his defenders.[1] Following his experiences during the coup attempt in 2002, Salazar then decided to join Venezuela's special forces.[1] After a helicopter demonstration performed by Salazar at the Parade of the Navy in 2006, Chávez once again recognized Salazar and asked Jesse Chacón, then Minister of Interior and Justice, to place Salazar on his security details for a second time at Miraflores Palace.[1] Salazar was then reassigned and provided security for Chávez until 2013, when Chávez died of cancer.[1]
After Chávez's death, Salazar became the head of the security detail for then President of the National Assembly of Venezuela, Diosdado Cabello until 2014.[2]
In December 2014, Salazar defected to the United States after communicating with the United States Drug Enforcement Administration for about two months about Diosdado Cabello's alleged involvement with international drug trade.[3][4][5] Salazar was then placed in witness protection, fleeing to the United States with assistance of the Drug Enforcement Administration's Special Operations Division after cooperation with the administration and providing possible details on Cabello's involvement with international drug trade.[4] Salazar claims that Cabello is the leader of the Cartel of the Suns, an alleged military drug trafficking organization in Venezuela.[5] Salazar stated that he saw Cabello give orders on transporting tons of cocaine.[5] The shipments of drugs were reportedly sent from FARC in Colombia and shipped to the United States and Europe, with the possible assistance of Cuba.[4][5] The alleged international drug operation had possibly involved senior members of Venezuela's government as well, such as Tarek El Aissami and José David Cabello, Diosdado's brother.[4][5]
After Salazar defected to the United States, he also said that the date that Hugo Chávez was to have allegedly died according to the Venezuelan government was wrong.[6] With information from Salazar, ambassador to the Organization of American States, Guillermo Cochez, stated that Salazar said that Hugo Chávez died at 19:32 on 30 December 2012, contrasting the date Nicolás Maduro stated, which was 5 March 2013.[6] This would be controversial since laws were passed in Chávez's name after the date Salazar stated he was to have died.[6]
A stair lift is a mechanical device for lifting people, typically those with disabilities, up and down stairs.[1] For sufficiently wide stairs, a rail is mounted to the treads of the stairs. A chair or lifting platform is attached to the rail. A person gets onto the chair or platform and is lifted up or down the stairs by the chair which moves along the rail.
Stair lifts are known variously as stairlifts, stair-lifts, chair lifts, stair gliders and by other names. This type of chair lift should not be confused with the chairlift used by skiers. The term stair climber can refer either to stair lifts, or more commonly to the exercise equipment by the same name.
Some of the first stair lifts to be produced commercially were advertised and sold in the U.S. in the 1930s by the Inclinator Company of America. Many users at the time were victims of polio.[2]
Now they are seen for use in elderly, fall-prone individuals, and disabled people who are unable to navigate stairs safely.
In the 1920s, C.C. Crispen, a Pennsylvania entrepreneur, created a way to enable an ailing friend to travel from floor to floor. Crispen's idea was to design a seat that could climb stairs. A self-taught engineer, he built the first prototype of the inclining chair. He called it the Inclin-ator.[3]
Prior to this Frederick Muffett of Royal Tunbridge Wells invented and patented "An Invalid Chair with Tramway for use on Staircases".[citation needed]
Historian David Starkey in 2009 found evidence in a list of the possessions of King Henry VIII that the king used a stairlift.[citation needed] The 30 stone (190 kg) king, injured through jousting, used a chair that was hauled up and down stairs on a block and tackle system by servants at the Palace of Whitehall in London.
Modern stair lifts can be found with a wide variety of features such as adjustable seat height, battery isolation switches, call stations, 'flip-up' rail, key switch, folding step, speed governor, seat belt, soft start and soft stop.
Straight rails for use on domestic staircases are usually made from extruded aluminum or steel and come in various cross-sectional shapes. These rails may, typically, weigh over 30 kg (66 lb), depending on the length. In most applications they are attached to the steps with metal brackets (sometimes called "cleats").
If a rail crosses a doorway at the bottom of the stairs or causes an obstruction, a hinge can be fitted so the end of the rail can be folded back out of the way when not in use.
Curved rails are made from materials such as steel or aluminum and come in various cross-sectional shapes according to the designer. Individual designs vary a lot and probably the key criterion is to make the curves with the smallest radius possible so they will wrap tightly around objects such as newel posts.
The sections of curved rails are usually packaged well to prevent damage in transit and are unwrapped and assembled on site.
Rails for wheelchair platform stair lifts may be secured to walls in addition to the step fixings.
The carriage is the component which moves along the rail and normally runs on small diameter rollers. In most designs the carriage is pulled by a cable or chain, or driven along the inclined rail by a rack and pinion system or other drive arrangement.
Most domestic carriages have a seat with arms and a footrest. Some special models have a stand-on platform also known as a "perch" seat. For users with shorter legs a short seat can be fitted, to make the lift more comfortable to sit on. Seats can be tailored to suit individual needs.
The conventional layout for a typical domestic stair lift is to have the seat at right angles to the rail so the user travels "sidesaddle". At the top of the staircase the seat can be swiveled, commonly through around 45 degrees or 90 degrees, then locked in place to allow the user to alight from it onto a landing. Stair lifts are available with either a manual swivel or a powered swivel, depending on the users ability.
Most swivel seats have a safety switch so the stair lift will not move unless the seat is locked into its travel position. Special models with seats facing the bottom of the staircase have been produced for users with spinal or other conditions which prevent use of the conventional seat layout. More room is need on the landing with these special seats.
These are the most common type of stair lifts used in private dwellings with straight stairs and have a straight rail (track) which is attached to the steps of the staircase. Straight-rail stair lifts can usually be installed within days of being ordered and, having a rail which is simply cut to length from a stock part, they are the least expensive stair lifts.
Curved stair lifts are made to follow the shape of an individual staircase (curved stairs). On staircases with intermediate flat landings they eliminate the need for multiple straight stair lifts by providing a continuous ride up the entire length of the staircase. Because the rail is custom-made to follow the staircase, and because the chair is more complex than on a straight-rail stair lift (it has to be able to remain level while traveling along a track which changes direction and angle), curved-rail stair lifts are more costly than stair lifts for straight stairs. 
Specifying a curved-rail stair lifts usually involves careful measurement, design and manufacturing, and the installation process usually takes longer than for a straight domestic stair lift, usually between 5 – 10 weeks.
One manufacturer, Acorn, can provide a curved-rail stair lift made from modular parts. This has the advantage of quick delivery time, even next day. 
The installer brings many parts and picks from them. 
They are usually similar in price to a custom-made curved-rail stair lift.
Vertical platform lifts come under the general definition of a stair lift and are usually of a much heavier construction than a domestic stair lift due to the fact they are going to transport a wheelchair or scooter and the person.
Most platform stair lifts are used in public access buildings and / or inside and outside private homes.
The platform is large enough to accommodate a wheelchair or scooter and its user, and may have folding edge flaps which drop down and act as ramps to allow for variations in floor levels. These flaps also prevent the wheelchair from going over the edge of the platform.
The rails are, necessarily, of heavy construction to support the load and the drive system is usually accommodated within a tubular section rail or aluminum extrusion. Some models have steel cables inside the tube, others have chains; yet others may use a rack and pinion system.
Many wheelchair platform stairlifts are designed and built to order. Others may comprise a standard platform and carriage, with the only special requirement being the length of rails or tracks.
Some stair lift chairs can also be moved and used as indoor wheelchairs.
Outdoor stair lifts are available for straight and curved staircases. They operate similar to indoor stair lifts but include weather-resistant features to help the unit withstand extreme harsh temperatures and weather conditions. Most often, outdoor stair lifts are used on staircases for decks, home entryways or lake access.
There is a second-user market for some types of stair lift. This is most common with straight rail domestic types. The rails can be cut to length if too long, or extended with a "joining kit". Most models allow the carriage to be "re-handed" so it can be used on the left or right side of the staircase.
During the early days of curved rail stair lifts there was no second user market because of the difficulty of matching rails to a different layout. Even staircases built to the same design specification in neighboring houses have variations, but in most attempted "transplants" there are too many differences to make it practicable. Many owners have had to pay to have unwanted curved stair lifts removed.
More recently, some curved rails have been produced to a modular design so components can be unbolted and used elsewhere, subject to design and safety considerations. In some cases, tubular section rails which are welded during manufacture, are produced by specialist rail companies so they can be used with a previously owned carriage, controls, and other components. This is, perhaps, like putting an old locomotive on new railway lines. It provides a lower cost solution than buying a totally new system.
Some insurance companies have offered breakdown policies for stair lifts. Manufacturers and installers have offered an extended warranty, rather like those available for domestic white goods and brown goods.
Some manufacturers produce stair lifts with trays instead of seats for moving goods between different levels, usually in commercial or industrial buildings. Some businesses have purchased normal domestic stair lifts purely as goods transporters and put items such as boxes of stationery on the seat.
Early stair lifts mostly had alternating current (AC) drive motors which ran at full mains voltage (around 115 volts in North America, 230 volts in Europe). An "energy chain" ran alongside or through the rail to carry the power cable from the supply point to the carriage.
More recently, domestic stair lifts have been powered from rechargeable batteries and use direct current (DC). One of the selling points is that a DC stair lift will continue to function during a power outage, provided the batteries are sufficiently charged. Most stair lifts have a 'charge point' where the unit will 'park' to charge its batteries. Some straight stair lifts have the ability to charge continuously no matter where they are left along the track.
With most DC models the batteries are accommodated within the carriage and travel with it.
Some models, however, were designed with three phase motors and the batteries (three in total) were housed in a cabinet mounted near the top or bottom of the rail. An inverter system was used to convert the DC energy to three phase AC.
The power rating of drive motors for domestic straight rail stair lifts may be around 250 watts.
The power requirement will be greater for heavy loads, very steep inclines, and wheelchair platform stair lifts.
Stair lifts are largely operated using a control on the arm of the lift. This is either a switch or a toggle type lever. This larger toggle switch enables users even with limited mobility or painful condition to use stair lifts easily and safely.
Electronic controls are used extensively. Many stair lifts have radio frequency or infrared remote controllers. It is known that radiation from devices such as fluorescent lights can interfere with infrared stair lift controls. Also, heat and incandescent lights can, in some circumstances, have an adverse effect.
Control circuit design varies greatly among the different manufacturers and models.
Curved rail stair lifts have more complex controls than those with straight rails.
The seat of a curved rail stair lift may have to be tilted so it remains horizontal whilst going around curves and negotiates different angles of incline. This requires an additional motor and link system.
Also, the carriage is slowed down on bends but travels faster on straight runs. This means a more complex control system. Modern controls have small microprocessors which "learn" the characteristics of the journeys and keep the data in memory. They also record the number of journey and direction. This assists service engineers on maintenance calls.
Some development of self-diagnostic controls began at the onset of the 21st Century. The idea was that stair lifts would predict when components were starting to deteriorate and automatically pass the information to the service provider so a visit could be arranged.
To satisfy safety codes stair lifts usually have cut-out switches connected to "safety edges" and other protective devices so the drive power is disconnected if something goes wrong. Modern lifts have a high degree of comfort, but safety is always paramount. "Safety edges" are a common feature to the power pack and footplate. "Safety edges" ensure that if there is any obstruction on the stairs the stair lift will automatically stop and only travel away from the obstruction.
Stair lifts are used by people of all ages and child car seats can usually be fixed a standard stair lift seat using the seat belt provided with the stair lift system.
Many stair lifts are also fitted with a key, to allow the user to prevent others from using the lift.
Codes of practice and technical specifications apply to stair lift manufacture.
In North America these codes may be relevant:
Produced by American Society of Mechanical Engineers
An important specification used by stair lift manufacturers in Europe was British Standard BS 5776: 1996 Specification For Powered Stair lifts, produced by The British Standards Institution.[4] It has since been replaced by BS EN 81-22:2021: Safety rules for the construction and installation of lifts.'[5]
Note: codes of practice and technical specifications are updated occasionally. These references may be out of date by the time they are read and are shown as examples.
Today, self-installation of stair lifts is becoming a common trend for people interested in DIY projects. Stair lifts are available for purchase that can be self-installed.
Professionals within the home medical equipment industry do not recommend that people attempt to install these products themselves. They believe that in terms of warranty, long-term care, and service, it is much more economical to have a trained professional install these products. In addition, these professionals are also aware of all safety measures and concerns associated with the proper installation of stair lifts, as well as the applicable local elevator codes.
Stair lifts normally have "soft" starts so the user is not jerked as the carriage starts to move.
Typical travel speed for domestic straight rail stair lift carriages range between 0.07 metres per second (13.78 feet per minute) and 0.15 metres per second (29.53 feet per minute) (0.34 miles per hour). The speed of curved rail stair lift carriages may vary on the journey if the controls cause them to slow on inclines and bends.
Stair lifts are highly individualized units that vary in price significantly. However, many base units begin between $3,000 and $5,000. Many options affect this base pricing including: length of railing needed, any curves involved, seat upgrades, motor upgrades, seat swivel, seat and foot pedal folding, and power type.
Bolstone is a village and civil parish in Herefordshire, England, 9 km (5.6 mi) south of Hereford.  According to the 2001 census, it had a population of 34.
 Media related to Bolstone at Wikimedia Commons
51°59′24″N 2°39′18″W﻿ / ﻿51.990°N 2.655°W﻿ / 51.990; -2.655

This Herefordshire location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Monster High is an American multimedia-supported fashion doll franchise created by toy designer Garrett Sander and launched by Mattel in 2010.[1][2] The show is aimed at children ages 7-14, the franchise features characters inspired by monster movies, sci-fi horror, thriller fiction, folklore, myths and popular culture, centering around the adventures of the teenage children of monsters and other mythical creatures attending a high school of the same name.
Though the fashion dolls were the main focus of the franchise, a 2D-animated web series and 15 animated TV specials/films were released to accompany them, as well as video games, a series of young adult novels written by Lisi Harrison and other forms of merchandise. The franchise quickly became very popular among children and was extremely successful in terms of earnings for Mattel; it was worth $1 billion in its 3rd year of existence with more than $500 million in sales annually, and was the second best-selling doll brand in North America. Two spin-off toy lines were launched as companions to Monster High: Ever After High in July 2013 based on fairy tales and fables and Enchantimals in 2017 featuring human-animal hybrids. However, sales declined in 2016, prompting Mattel to reboot the franchise with a revamped aesthetic and a new fictional universe. The reboot was a commercial failure, eventually leading to the discontinuation of the franchise in 2018.
Monster High relaunched a second time in 2020 with the release of new dolls representing horror/goth film cults, culminating with the 2021 announcement of an animated TV series and a live-action musical film, both produced by Mattel Television and premiered on Nickelodeon in October 2022.[3][4][5][6][7]
In the fictional American town of New Salem, the teenage children of famous monsters (and other mythical creatures) attend a high school called Monster High. The school is renowned for allowing all species of monsters to enroll in it: this is in contrast with other schools that exist in the franchise's fantasy world, which are reserved for one type of monster only (for example, a vampire-exclusive school). The characters' stories were told through the TV series, web series, films, the official website, as well as through diaries (booklets) included with the dolls. Since the franchise's beginnings in the late 2000s and early 2010s, Monster High has valued diversity among its characters and their visual appearance, personalities, abilities, and cultural backgrounds.[8]
Monster High features a variety of fictional characters, many of them being students at the titular high school. The female characters are called "ghouls", and the male characters are called "mansters". When the franchise was first introduced, the characters were generally the sons and daughters of monsters that have been popularized in fiction; in later years, it expanded to also feature characters inspired by other various types of mythical creatures, such as figures from folklore, mythology, and pop culture.
The franchise's official website at the time listed characters in four categories: "original" – the main characters who were introduced the earliest, "ghouls" – the female characters, "mansters" – the male characters, and "Frightmares" – characters who are half-centaur and half-monster.[9] The original characters are:
Mattel began conceptualizing the Monster High franchise in 2007; the company filed for a trademark of the name "Monster High" in October of that year.[14] Garrett Sander — then a packaging designer at Mattel — and his twin brother Darren went shopping with young girls one day, where they noticed that the young girls were into goth fashion. This served as inspiration for creating a toy brand with a dark aesthetic. Darren was involved with the early concepts for the brand; he came up with the slogan "(Where) Freaky Just Got Fabulous!". He also remarked that because the characters were monsters, they had more freedom to do things that ordinary kids could not do.[15] Other inspirations for the brand include children's interests in Tim Burton and Lady Gaga.[16]
Fashion dolls were the first franchise product to be released, with the media and other merchandise following soon after.[17] The first line, which included the original six characters, was released in 2010.[18][19][20] Mattel was experimenting with a new business strategy which consisted of launching a new franchise by releasing the toy first—without a "traditional entertainment property first"—and then following up with the media and entertainment.[17] The original packaging boxes were designed by Garrett Sander himself.[21] According to a social media post made by Sander in 2020, the very first prototypes of the dolls during its development were made using head molds from another Mattel doll line that was never officially released, bodies from Barbie collector dolls, and with some accessories from My Scene dolls. A good amount of the initial design remained unchanged, but the actual dolls ended up looking drastically different.[22]
Over 750 different dolls have been released since its 2010 launch.[23] They vary in size, features, materials used, type of packaging, types of accessories they come with, country of manufacture, etc. Most of them are about 10.5 in (270 mm) tall. Some dolls, particularly the ones which were released a long time ago or in limited quantity, are rare, collectible, and therefore expensive.[20] Most Monster High dolls were marketed to children as toys to play with, but some "collector's edition" dolls, priced higher and aimed at an older audience, were also made.[24]
In 2016, Monster High underwent a reboot, which was likely an attempt to make the brand appeal to a younger age category.[25] The sales were low that year,[26] and the line was eventually quietly discontinued in 2018.[27] In 2020, however, the franchise made its comeback when two new premium-priced collector dolls—dubbed "Skullector" and inspired by characters from the horror movies It and The Shining—were made available for purchase just in time for that year's Halloween.[28] In 2021, a new set of two Skullector dolls inspired by characters from the movie Beetlejuice was launched exclusively through the "Mattel Creations" section of Mattel's website[29] alongside a doll inspired by the film Gremlins 2: The New Batch.[30] In 2022, Mattel presented a new Monster High line called "Haunt Couture" (wordplay on "haute couture") which consisted of five new collector dolls: the five main characters of Frankie Stein, Clawdeen Wolf, Draculaura, Cleo de Nile and Lagoona Blue. They featured details such as rooted eyelashes and were priced at $75, and similarly were only available through the website.[31] On Friday, May 13, 2022, Mattel released a new "Booriginal Creeproductions" line of Monster High dolls which were a tribute to the original 2010 line. It featured four of the main characters dressed in their original outfits and packaged in boxes that took heavy inspiration from the original packaging. They were priced at $25 each and at first available exclusively at Walmart outlets in the United States, and then also worldwide through the "Mattel Creations" section of the Mattel website.[32] They were aimed at older consumers who grew up with the original dolls prior to their 2018 discontinuation.[33][34]
Various other Monster-High-branded products have been released: they include collectible vinyl figurines, Halloween costumes, plushies,[35] stationery, children's clothing, accessories, and makeup, perfume, and more. In February 2022, American fashion designer Maisie Wilen collaborated with Mattel to create a pair of earrings inspired by one of the main Monster High characters' style; they were available for $50 exclusively through the "Mattel Creations" section of the Mattel website.[36][37] In April 2022, Mattel collaborated with Hot Topic on a clothing collection inspired by the aesthetics of the franchise.[38]
Launched in the digital media era, Monster High began adaptation into a web series which had its debut on YouTube on 5 May 2010, followed by a 23-minute TV special, New Ghoul @ School on October 30 that same year which premiered on Nickelodeon in the United States. The aforementioned New Ghoul @ School and the next TV special, Fright On! were 2D-animated, with the following films animated in CGI or computer animation: "Why Do Ghouls Fall in Love", "Escape from Skull Shores", "Friday Night Frights", "Scaris: City of Frights", "Ghouls Rule", "13 Wishes", "Freaky Fusion", "Haunted", "Boo York, Boo York", Great Scarrier Reef, Welcome to Monster High and Electrified. Other films were reported to be in development until the first franchise reboot and the discontinuation of Ever After High in 2016. Starting with Fright On! in 2011, the specials and films were released in direct-to-video home video formats by Universal Pictures Home Entertainment. The films ranked Monster High as the second in the list of children's direct-to-video franchises that year, according to online magazines and publications.[39] The films and specials have also appeared on streaming services/platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video.[40]
In the 2015 film "Boo York, Boo York", a character known as Astranova makes contact with Apple White and Raven Queen from Ever After High suggesting a crossover in the future.[41] However, the first franchise reboot and the discontinuation of Ever After High derailed and cancelled those plans (which also included more based-on films than the 16 indicated); brief storyboard animatics were instead released on the official Monster High YouTube channel under the title The Lost Movie[42] and early designs for the EAH characters intended for the crossover have been released online.[43]
In 2021, it was announced that Mattel Television would produce a live-action musical film and an animated TV series for Nickelodeon, which premiered in October 2022. Both projects feature more gender diversity and LGBT characters.[44][45]
Monster High: Kowa Ike Girls (Japanese: モンスター・ハイ こわイケガールズ, romanized: Monsutā Hai Kowa Ike Gāruzu; Monsutā Hai and Gāruzu being transliteration of "Monster High" and "Girls", respectively) is an 8-episode series of 3-minute Japanese animated shorts produced by Shougakukan Music & Digital Entertainment [ja],[46] and animated at Picona Creative Studio.[46][47] The shorts were broadcast as a part of TXN's morning children's television programming block Oha Suta beginning on October 22, 2014.[48] Mattel Japan's official YouTube account later released the shorts online.
The theme song, simply titled "Monster High" (Japanese: モンスター・ハイ, romanized: Monsutā Hai), was sung by Japanese teen idol girl band Amorecarina, featuring Kaede (from another idol girl band, Chu-Z [ja]) as a rapper. It was included in Amorecarina's debut single of the same name, along with an instrumental version.[49]
The Kowa Ike Girls shorts were released in Japanese only.
Video games based on the franchise were released to accompany the audiovisual media. 
The first game released was Monster High: Ghoul Spirit, available for the Nintendo DS and the Wii consoles on 25 October 2011. This release featured a special "Ghoulify" function for the Nintendo DSi. The game revolves around the player being the new 'ghoul' in school and must work their way through activities and social situations to finally be crowned 'Scream Queen'.
Another video game for Nintendo DS and Wii titled Monster High: Skultimate Roller Maze was released in November 2012. This game allowed players to experience the Monster High sport - Skultimate Roller Maze. Teams compete their way through a hazardous maze of obstacles. 
The third video game for the Wii, Wii U, Nintendo DS, and Nintendo 3DS named after Monster High: 13 Wishes was released in October 2013. In this game, players take on the role of Frankie Stein who must free her friends from a magical lantern by collecting thirteen shards of a magic mirror. 
Mobile apps Ghoul Box and Sweet 1600 are available on iTunes for the iPad and iPhone devices. The Monster High website has also released a series of catacomb-themed web games: "trick or trance", "phantom roller" and "scary sweet memories". In November 2015, Monster High: New Ghoul in School was released for the Xbox 360, PC, PlayStation 3, Wii, 3DS, and Wii U.[50] The PC version was de-listed on Steam in 2017.
Lisi Harrison, a Canadian author known for writing popular book series; The Clique and The Alphas, wrote some young adult novels based on the franchise using a different fictional universe than the web series and deal with the Regular-Attribute Dodgers (RADs) and their struggles with love, social life, school and not to be outed as monsters to humans.
Mattel released Harrison's first Monster High novel on 26 September 2010. The book revolves around Frankie Stein and Melody Carver. The second book in the series, The Ghoul Next Door, was released at the end of March 2011[51] and features chapters on Cleo de Nile. 
The third book featuring Clawdeen Wolf is titled Where There's a Wolf, There's a Way and was released on 29 September 2011. The fourth novel titled Back And Deader Than Ever was released on May 1, 2012[52] and features Draculaura. Another Monster High book called Drop Dead Diary was released on January 19, 2011; it was written by a pseudonymous author Abaghoul Harris.[53]
Author Gitty Daneshvari has written a Ghoulfriends series focusing on Monster High characters Venus McFlytrap, Robecca Steam, and Rochelle Goyle. The four books include: Ghoulfriends Forever, Ghoulfriends Just Want To Have Fun, Who's That Ghoulfriend? and  Ghoulfriends 'Til the End .
A book series by Nessi Monstrata was released covering five of the main franchise characters.
A book series by Misty Von Spooks was released that featured the Generation 2 franchise characters.
Two songs titled "Fright Song" (2010), by Windy Wagner, and "We Are Monster High" (2013), by Madison Beer, were released digitally along with live-action music videos on YouTube.[72][73][74]
With the popularity of Monster High, companion doll lines were launched. Ever After High (abbreviated EAH) launched in July 2013 and features the children of characters of well-known fairy tales and fables. The franchise mainly focuses on Apple White, daughter of Snow White, and Raven Queen, daughter of the Evil Queen, also from Snow White in lead roles. Both represent the main conflict of its associated web series originally released on YouTube: the Royals, which is composed of students like Apple White who "want to follow their predetermined fairy tale story", versus the Rebels, which composed of students like Raven Queen who "wish to “rewrite” their story/tale". The C. A. Cupid character from Monster High began featuring in its corresponding series from the 4th webisode onward where she is an exchange student there.
The second companion line was launched on 18 July 2017 as Enchantimals, featuring animal-inspired humanoid characters with a corresponding animal companion each as their pets. This was in response to the growth of the My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic fandom.[citation needed] It was originally tied to Ever After High, but fully branched off with EAH's declining sales.
Monster High was a massive financial success for Mattel,[75][76][77][78] becoming a billion-dollar brand in just three years and surpassing executives' expectations.[79] During the first few years, the dolls' quickly rising popularity caused the sales of Mattel's own Barbie dolls to decline;[80] in 2013, while Barbie remained the best-selling doll brand, Monster High became the second best-selling doll brand, with more than $500 million in annual sales.[81] In 2010, shortly after the dolls launched for the first time, they were so popular it was sometimes hard to find them in stores due to scarcity, and they were selling out quickly.[82] The line's success was partially thanks to its appeal to younger children who were choosing to play with toys which were "a little bit edgier" than traditional fashion dolls like Barbie,[83][84] its "anti-bullying message" which encouraged children to be themselves and embrace their own flaws and differences,[85] and the "deep engagement" of fans with the franchise which was maintained through media and merchandise.[77] It was built on a "trans-media storytelling [business] model, since it did not start with a traditional entertainment property first", which also contributed to its success.[82] Even though the franchise experienced a lot of growth in its first few years, especially during 2012 and 2013, sales started declining in 2014.[86] In 2016, the sales were weak.[26] Ultimately, the line was discontinued in 2018,[27] then brought back 2 years later.[28] On 16 May 2022, when a new doll line featuring reproductions of the original 2010 dolls was made available online through the "Mattel Creations" section of the Mattel website.[33] demand was high: the dolls sold out in less than one day.[87]
The franchise has received positive recognition for its promotion of diversity among the characters, especially in comparison with other toy brands with similar levels of popularity.[88][89][90][91] This diversity continues to be a major selling point in Mattel's marketing of the franchise.[8] In 2022, during the rollout of a new doll line, Lisa McKnight — Executive Vice President of Barbie & Dolls at Mattel —said: "We've been waiting for the right moment to reignite the Monster High brand to connect with [...] issues that are core to our purpose, like inclusion, diversity and community [...] with the updated franchise focused on being authentic, true to yourself and celebrating differences."[33]
Monster High has some controversy and criticism, citing that the dolls' unrealistic bodies, often revealing outfits, and characters' focus on romantic relationships were a bad influence on young children.[92][93] They were criticized for being "hyper-sexualized" and reinforcing gender stereotypes about women; it was even implied that children could develop low self-esteem and eating disorders due to the presentation of unattainable body types.[91] Peggy Orenstein similarly criticized Monster High in her Cinderella Ate My Daughter.
Inspired by the commercial success of Monster High, other toy manufacturers — namely some of the biggest competitors in the toy industry which is the field of franchise owner Mattel[94] — launched their own toy lines with a similar premise and/or aesthetic. In 2012, MGA Entertainment launched Bratzillaz (House of Witchez), a spin-off of the Bratz brand;[95] it featured a similar theme centered around the paranormal, and was seen as MGA's attempt at capitalizing off of the success of Monster High.[96] The same year, MGA also launched Novi Stars, a sci-fi-themed line of fashion dolls that featured extraterrestrial humanoids.[95][97] In 2013, The Bridge Direct launched Pinkie Cooper, which featured a humanoid Cocker Spaniel of the same name; in an interview with CNN Money, analyst Gerrick Johnson named both Monster High and Novi Stars as "competitors that come closest" to the dog-headed fashion doll.[98] Also in 2013, Hasbro launched My Little Pony: Equestria Girls as an anthropomorphized spin-off of the 2010 incarnation of the main My Little Pony franchise;[99][100] it featured the counterparts of My Little Pony characters in human-like silhouettes with non-human skin colors; it was regarded as Hasbro's take on Monster High.[101]
Smosh is an American YouTube sketch comedy-improv collective, independent production company, and former social networking site founded by Anthony Padilla and Ian Hecox.[1] In 2002, Padilla created a website named "smosh.com" for making Flash animations, and he was later joined by Hecox. They began to post videos on Smosh's YouTube channel in the fall of 2005 and quickly became one of the most popular channels on the site. The Smosh channel has over 10 billion views and over 25 million subscribers.[2][3]
Since 2012, the Smosh brand has expanded to consist of multiple channels, including a Spanish-language channel (ElSmosh), a channel focused on gaming content (Smosh Games), and a variety channel (Smosh Pit). The sketches have also included more actors. The Smosh channel has experienced three different spans as the most subscribed YouTube channel. The first period spanned from May to June 2006, the second from April 2007 to September 2008, and the third span from January to August 2013.[4][5][6]
In 2017, Padilla left the channel to pursue independent ventures and focus on his own separate channel. On November 6, 2018, Smosh's parent company Defy Media abruptly closed without warning.[7] Six days later, the Smosh cast released a video announcing that production of Smosh, Smosh Pit, and Smosh Games content was still ongoing, and that existing videos would be finished and other content would be released independently by Smosh on their YouTube channels.[8][9] They subsequently joined Mythical Entertainment after their company was purchased by Rhett & Link on February 22, 2019.[10][11] After four years of ownership under Mythical, it was announced in June 2023 that Padilla had returned to the channel, and that he, along with Hecox, had bought the company back from Mythical, re-establishing Smosh as an independent entity.[3]
The franchise began when Anthony Padilla built a website in 2002, smosh.com,[12][13][14] and made several different Flash animations.[13] He has stated that the name "Smosh" came from an incident where he mistook a friend explaining a mosh pit as a "smosh pit".[15][16] Other content creators in the pre-YouTube era would also upload videos to smosh.com, including future YouTuber TomSka.[citation needed] Later, his friend, Ian Hecox, joined the venture; Padilla and Hecox first met in the sixth grade.[15] They became friends, and quickly discovered their knack for comedy.[15][17] In 2005, they joined YouTube and made several videos together, lip syncing the theme songs to Mortal Kombat, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Power Rangers, the latter of which was their first video uploaded to the website.[18]
At first, these videos were not intended to be posted online, but after they sent them to their friends, they started a YouTube channel.[16]
One of Smosh's earliest videos, "Pokémon Theme Music Video", was released on November 28, 2005. It followed the same style as their other earlier videos, featuring the duo lip-synching the original English theme song for the Pokémon anime.[19] However, the video instantly became much more popular than any of their other videos. Over the course of its lifetime, it gained over 24 million views, becoming the most-viewed video on all of YouTube at that time.[20][21][22][23][24] This held that title until being dethroned by Judson Laipply's "Evolution of Dance". It was later removed for copyright.[23]
The success of their Pokémon video and other videos led Smosh to be featured in the "Person of the Year: You" issue of Time, published December 13, 2006.[22] Due to the channel's continued success, and Smosh's partnership with YouTube, the two recreated the video in November 2010, this time changing the words to be critical of The Pokémon Company taking down the Pokémon theme video.[25][26]
Over the course of the next few years, Smosh began to diversify. They started making short YouTube skits, such as their annual video series Food Battle[27][28] and That Damn Neighbor, which were primarily filmed in and around a house in Rosemont, California.[29][30] Smosh continued to grow in popularity and became one of the most subscribed channels on YouTube.[31] In 2009, Smosh prepared a massive redesign of Smosh.com, added a games section, and put extras in the video section. In January 2010, Smosh launched the "Smosh Pit" feature, a blog that consists of various pieces of pop-culture trivia, and written comedy. In addition, 2010 saw the channel launch 3 different Smosh-based web series: Ian Is Bored, which started as a collection of comedic videos by Hecox, but then turned into both Hecox and Padilla making vlog like videos, and renamed Smosh Is Bored; Ask Charlie, where people ask Charlie, from their January 2010 Charlie the Drunk Guinea Pig video, random questions; and Lunchtime with Smosh, a comedy series featuring Smosh getting and eating food from various places, and answering Twitter questions from their fans on Twitter. Some of Smosh's most popular video series include Pokémon in Real Life and If ____ Was Real.[17][32] Also in early 2010, Smosh created the "iShut Up App" for Android phones as part of a Google sponsorship; it eventually made its way to the iTunes app store.
In 2011, Smosh was acquired by Alloy Digital (later rebranded to Defy Media), while also enjoying a 40% boost in viewership.[23][33]
In 2012, the duo started three new YouTube channels, ElSmosh, with Smosh videos dubbed in Spanish, Shut Up! Cartoons, with various animated videos,[34][35] and Smosh Games, with gaming-related content hosted alongside Mariko "Mari" Takahashi, David "Lasercorn" Moss, Matthew Sohinki, and Joshua "Jovenshire" Ovenshire.[36][37] Some of Smosh's most popular videos are video-game themed music videos.[38] These songs (along with other original songs) have been released in four albums to date – Sexy Album (2010), If Music Were Real (2011), Smoshtastic (2012), and The Sweet Sound of Smosh (2013). In January 2013, the Smosh channel surpassed Ray William Johnson in subscribers to become the most-subscribed YouTube channel for the third time.[6] Smosh released Super Head Esploder X, a video game for iOS, in February 2013,[39][40] and in July 2013 started an Indiegogo campaign for an iOS and PC game, Food Battle: The Game.[41][42] Hecox and Padilla raised $258,777 to hire video game producers to create a game based on their characters and the foods used in their annual Food Battle series. Smosh donated 10% of the funds to three charities[43][44] in November 2014, as well as releasing the game.
In February 2014, Smosh released a mobile app to access Smosh videos and other content from their website,[45] and in late 2014 an Xbox One app.[46] Later in 2014, a fan run channel Smosh France became an official Smosh channel.[47] In March 2015, Smosh re-launched the Smosh Games Alliance, a multi-channel network where fans join to enjoy network benefits in exchange for a percentage of the ad revenue.[48][49] In 2015, the duo announced Noah Grossman, Keith Leak Jr., Olivia Sui,[50] Courtney Miller and Shayne Topp[51] as new regular cast members for Smosh videos. A sketch series, called Every (Blank) Ever, has been released every two weeks since May 2015.[17]
In January 2016, a web sitcom was launched on the main Smosh channel. Part Timers is a comedy-drama which takes place at a fictional children's arcade and pizza place called Pork E. Pine's, which takes inspiration from Hecox's first job at Chuck E. Cheese's.[52][53] Each episode presents a challenge that the team must overcome to keep the business going. The series features regular Smosh cast members, Grossman (as Pete), Hecox (as Ian), and Padilla (as Anton), in addition to Cat Alter (as Mads), Jade Martz (as Ella), Casey Webb (as Dinger), and Natalie Whittle (as Lori).[54] The series was released every Monday on the Smosh channel from January to May 2016.[54] During the month of February, Ericka "Boze" Bozeman joined the cast of Smosh Games. Also that year, cast member Mariko "Mari" Takahashi was selected to participate on Survivor: Millennials vs. Gen X, though was the second player voted out.[55]
On June 14, 2017, Padilla announced he would be leaving Smosh to pursue independent video ventures due to a "lack in creative freedom".[56][57] Hecox stated he would remain with Smosh, adding "I'm really looking forward to taking Smosh to the next phase, and we can't wait for people to see what we have coming up."[58]
On November 6, 2018, Defy Media abruptly announced they were shutting down and laying off all its employees. Hecox said that Smosh was not "going away" and that plans were underway to find Smosh a new home.[7] Padilla released a video the following day which went into more detail about his departure from Smosh and his issues with what Defy was doing with their employees and Smosh. He said that he and Hecox sold Smosh to Alloy Digital (which later became Defy Media) for stock, which had no monetary value because the company never went public. Padilla also expressed dissatisfaction with how Defy treated its employees and stated the company exploited them financially, took over his Facebook page, tried to take over his Twitter account, prevented him from joining the Screen Actors Guild, and that they had pressured them into starting a fundraiser for Food Battle: The Game before it had even been conceived, something that had at the time led to accusations of exploitation being leveled against himself and Hecox. He also explained that he had not previously shared this information because of worries that it would threaten the job security of his friends.[59] On November 12, Smosh released an update video reaffirming that Smosh was searching for a new owner, and that in the meanwhile, content would continue to be released independently by the Smosh team. The cast clarified that they still had a significant amount of content from before Defy Media's shutdown in post-production. They also did not rule out the possibility of filming new content and releasing it independently, calling such an idea "old school", alluding to YouTube's early days when content was less commercialized.[8]
On February 22, 2019, Smosh was acquired by Mythical Entertainment, a production company founded by fellow YouTube comedians Rhett & Link.[60] This led to several changes in the Smosh cast and crew.[citation needed] During this time, Smosh operated out of Mythical Entertainment's Los Angeles office,[61] though later moved into a specially built studio space in Burbank.[62]
On June 20, 2023, Hecox and Padilla announced the latter's return to Smosh after the duo had decided to repurchase a majority stake in Smosh from Mythical Entertainment to become an independent entity again. With this change, Padilla promoted Alessandra Catanese, the COO and executive producer from his own company Pressalike Productions, as CEO of the new Smosh entity, It was stated that the main Smosh channel would return to a more sketch-oriented output, moving away from the pivot to more improv-based content in the years prior. However, the unscripted Smosh Pit and Smosh Games channels would remain as they were.[63][3]
On September 18, 2014, it was announced that a feature-length film starring the duo was in development by AwesomenessFilms;[64] it would be later titled Smosh: The Movie, and was released direct-to-video on July 24, 2015, by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, with Netflix acquiring the film's streaming rights.[65][66] Directed by Alex Winter from a screenplay by Eric Falconer and Steve Marmel, it stars both Hecox and Padilla as fictionalized versions of themselves, alongside fellow YouTube personalities Jenna Marbles, Grace Helbig, Harley Morenstein, Mark Fischbach, Dominic Sandoval, and the Smosh Games crew, with Shane Dawson appearing in the Unrated version.[67][68] Smosh created the film Ghostmates for YouTube Red that was released on December 14, 2016.[69] Padilla and Hecox voiced the characters Hal and Bubbles respectively in The Angry Birds Movie (2016), with only Padilla returning for its 2019 sequel.[70]
Smosh is the original and main channel created in November 2005. It has over 26 million subscribers and 10 billion views. The channel posts sketches and other videos starring the main cast with Ian Hecox and Anthony Padilla.
The Smosh Games channel features videos consisting of Let's Plays and video game commentary shows. When the channel was first created, Padilla and Hecox were the regular features of these videos; the pair began to appear less regularly on the channel over time, with fellow Smosh Games members Mariko "Mari" Takahashi, Joshua "Joven" Ovenshire, David "Lasercorn" Moss, Matthew Sohinki, Amra "Flitz" Ricketts,[71] Wesley "Wes" Johnson,[72] Ericka "Boze" Bozeman and Damien Haas handling most hosting duties by 2017. The channel has over 7.3 million subscribers and over 2.5 billion video views as of May 2021.[73] Takahashi,[74] Moss,[75] Sohinki,[76] Ovenshire,[77] Ricketts,[78] and Johnson[79] also have their own channels, which are not considered part of the Smosh roster.
From 2015 to 2019, the channel hosted annual Smosh Summer Games and Smosh Winter Games events. The first Summer Games in 2015 introduced Shayne Topp to the Smosh crew as a referee, while the 2017 Winter Games introduced Boze to the lineup. Damien Haas joined later in 2017. In August that year, Sohinki and Lasercorn announced that they would no longer be full-time members of Smosh Games, in order to focus on their new channel, Toaster Ghost, and for Lasercorn to spend more time with his son. They have not ruled out appearing in future Smosh-related videos however, and have appeared occasionally in videos since then.
On January 4, 2018, Ricketts left the channel after being accused by multiple women of sexual assault and rape.[80][81][82] After Ricketts' departure, the channel's show Game Bang was paused indefinitely and was later implied to be canceled.[citation needed] Game Bang has not returned since 2018, but still remains one of the longest-running shows on the Smosh Games channel.
The channel became inactive after Smosh's parent company, Defy Media, folded. However, it was confirmed in a 2019 episode of SmoshCast that the channel would resume in April that year, with the main cast being more involved and Lasercorn returning.[83] The video featured a lineup of Ian, Mari, Lasercorn, Courtney and Damien, with production staff Sarah Whittle and Matt Raub featuring in subsequent videos. Both Sarah Whittle and Matt Raub left Smosh in May 2021 and July 2022 respectively. It is currently unknown if any other former Smosh Games members would return to the channel. In an April 2019 episode of SmoshCast, Jovenshire explained that he had not been an employee of Defy Media since May 1, 2018 and had been working freelance with Smosh Games since.[84] However, he has reappeared in subsequent videos, including a Super Smash Bros. Ultimate competition on May 18, 2019.[85] Mari and Lasercorn both left the channel in 2020 to launch New Element Six (NE6) with fellow Smosh Games alumni Flitz, Joven, Sohinki, and Wes. However, the group disbanded in mid-2020, and Mari later announced her move to Las Vegas.[86] In 2022, Lasercorn, Jovenshire, Sohinki and Mari once again reunited to create OGSoG, a podcast YouTube channel.
The Smosh Games channel uploads every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday. The videos consist of playing video games, board games and card games, with various recurring games and series.
The Smosh Summer Games and Smosh Winter Games were an annual competition held on Smosh Games and Smosh Pit (Smosh 2nd Channel until its rebrand in 2017) channels, which featured all the Smosh members being split into two teams either randomly or by selection of the team captain, each named based on the theme of the games that year, and competing in various events consisting of both video games and physical games. The Smosh Summer Games last took place in 2019, with the Winter Games last taking place in 2017.
Smosh Summer Games (2015–2019)
Smosh Winter Games (2016–2017)
From Smosh Pit (originally named "IanH" and later Smosh 2nd Channel, and at first used for vlogs and other non-scripted videos), Hecox and Padilla upload their side series Smosh is Bored on Mondays, while the rest of the team uploads vlogs on Thursdays, and Put It in My Mouth and Smosh's Seriously Super Stupid Sleepover on Saturdays. It has over 7.2 million subscribers and over 2.4 billion views.[87] Smosh Pit Weekly was a series on the channel hosted by Mariko "Mari" Takahashi from April 2011 to August 2015, posted on Saturdays.
On July 28, 2017, Ian Hecox announced that Smosh 2nd Channel would be renamed "Smosh Pit" in the near future, and that Smosh Pit Weekly would be revived, with Mariko "Mari" Takahashi returning as host. Two other shows, WHOA! Nature Show, starring Courtney Miller and Olivia Sui, and One Hour Song Machine, starring Keith Leak Jr., were also announced.
The channel hosted The Show w/ No Name, a weekly interactive series that features three members of the Smosh cast as hosts on rotation, with members of Smosh Games occasionally appearing alongside the main cast. The show features art drawn by fans, along with questions submitted via Twitter for the cast to answer.
The Smosh Pit series Try Not to Laugh, started in 2017, consists of the primary and/or secondary Smosh cast (usually with at least one guest) performing various improvised scenarios directed at one cast member, who has a mouthful of water, in an attempt to cause them to laugh and spit out the water. The most popular of these videos, as of June 2021, stands at 36.7 million views.[88]
As a part of the Mythical Entertainment rebrand, a podcast titled SmoshCast was launched in February 2019. In its first run, each Wednesday a new episode was released on iTunes with Ian Hecox, or occasionally Courtney Miller, hosting alongside cohosts from the Smosh crew. The channel took a hiatus in 2020, returning for one episode after on May 4, 2021, to announce Sarah Whittle's departure from Smosh.
After another hiatus from May 2021, SmoshCast was confirmed to return in June 2023 with a new design and logo, this time returning permanently, instead of as a one-off re-appearance.
In August 2023, was later revealed that SmoshCast would have a revamped format, again with a new logo because SmoshCast would split into two shows taking place on the SmoshCast channel, which together would make up the SmoshCast content. The SmoshCast podcast was renamed to Smosh Mouth, with a new show, Flashback w/Smosh being introduced and hosted by Ian Hecox and Anthony Padilla. Flashback w/ Smosh was later moved to the main channel. The channel currently has over 380,000 subscribers as of August 2023.
Smosh Mouth (also referred as the SmoshCast) is based off the original format of SmoshCast's first iteration. The podcast was reintroduced on 26 June 2023 and is hosted by Shayne Topp and Amanda Lehan-Canto every Monday with one other rotating Smosh member and/or a guest joining them each episode. It includes them talking about their lives and various other topics and current events, revealing and discussing possible future ideas for various content and reading through and discussing various things on social media, such as Reddit posts and more.
In August 2023, the SmoshCast channel introduced a new show alongside the podcast called Flashback with Smosh, hosted by Ian Hecox and Anthony Padilla. Following Padilla's return to Smosh, Hecox and Padilla react to old Smosh videos from 2005 to 2016, and talk about old memories and behind the scenes stories from their old videos. This was announced with a video on the Smosh Pit channel where Hecox and Padilla reacted to old Smosh videos with newer Smosh members Angela Giarratana and Chanse McCrary. However, the series was moved to the main Smosh channel.
On ElSmosh, the team (managed by Chilean YouTuber SoloPatrick) uploads new Smosh episodes that have been dubbed over in Spanish. The channel was created in July 2011 and currently has over 3.7 million subscribers. The videos are mostly from the main Smosh channel, particularly the Every Blank Ever series. Previously, the channel used to dub former Smosh shows such as, ElSmosh Pit de la Semana (Smosh Pit Weekly) and the Honest Game Trailers series from Smosh Games.[89]
AnthonyPadilla hosted vlogs uploaded by Padilla. Most videos uploaded prior to 2016 were removed when Padilla revived the channel to upload personal vlogs. As of April 2023[update], it has over 7 million subscribers.[90] When Padilla departed from Smosh in 2017, the channel was no longer associated with the Smosh brand. When Padilla returned to Smosh in June 2023, Ian Hecox appeared on his I Spent the Day With series, opening up the possibility that his main channel could upload Smosh-related content in the future. However, it is not yet known if this channel will return to the Smosh umbrella.
AskCharlie, active from May 2010 to December 2011, hosts videos from the Ask Charlie series, where an anthropomorphic guinea pig, named Charlie the Drunk Guinea Pig, answers viewer submitted questions. It has over 321,000 subscribers.
Shut Up! Cartoons hosts a number of animated series, created by different animators. It has over 2 million subscribers.[91] The channel was created in January 2012 but has been inactive since June 2017.
The Smosh Games Alliance (SGA) channel was used for extra content for the Smosh Games crew. It originally spotlighted fan-submitted gaming content and offered tutorials in "Smosh University", and later hosted vlogs from the Smosh Games crew. It has over 249,000 subscribers.[92] The channel was created in February 2013 but has been inactive since December 2016.
The Smosh France channel was launched in June 2013 and currently has over 140,000 subscribers, which similar to ElSmosh, provided French dubbed-versions and on-screen subtitles in French of various Smosh videos, particularly from the main Smosh channel. The channel has been inactive since January 2020.
The SmoshShorts channel consists of TikTok videos re-uploaded as YouTube Shorts. The channel was created in May 2021 and currently has over 20,000 subscribers, but has been inactive since August 2021. The main reason for the channel's inactivity is because the videos have been uploaded on the Shorts sections of the main Smosh channels instead.
The Concerned Officers Movement (COM) was an organization of mainly junior officers formed within the U.S. military in the early 1970s. Though its principal purpose was opposition to the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War,[1] it also fought for First Amendment rights within the military.[2] It was initiated in the Washington, D.C. area by commissioned officers who were also Vietnam Veterans,[3] but rapidly expanded throughout all branches and many bases of the U.S. military, ultimately playing an influential role in the opposition to the Vietnam War.[4][5] At least two of its chapters expanded their ranks to include enlisted personnel (non-officers), in San Diego changing the group's name to Concerned Military, and in Kodiak, Alaska, to Concerned Servicemen's Movement.[1][6]
COMs genesis sprang from the participation of Marine Captain Bob Brugger in the November 1969 March on Washington against the Vietnam War. The Washington Post carried an article about Brugger and his wife that caused his superior officers to enter an unsatisfactory mark for loyalty in his fitness report and generated supportive phone calls from other officers.[7][8] Brugger's opposition to "blind patriotism" and his stand against racism at home and in Vietnam had struck a chord with other officers who read the article.
Over several months a group of officers agreed to work together and on March 14, 1970, they participated as Officers' Resistance in a G.I. Rally for Peace and Justice in Washington, D.C. By the end of March 1970 they had changed their name to the Concerned Officers Movement.[3] Early members who signed the first published newsletter were LT Jim Crawford, USN, CPT Ed Fox, USA, CPT Gerry Giovaniello, USAR, LTJG Tono Hixon, USNR, LTJG Phil Lehman, USNR, LTJG Randy Thomas, USNR; LTJG Robert Nechin USAR; CAPT Larry Wasser, USMC, and CPT Bob Gaines, USAR.[3] Other early members were 1LT Louis Font, a West Point honor graduate, who received extensive national media coverage for his stand against the war and CAPT Mike Mullen, USMCR who was one of the contacts on the organization's first leaflet (see image to right).[9]
COM's first newsletter, published in April 1970, described the organization's political views:
The Concerned Officers' Movement was formed by a group of active duty and reserve officers who could no longer continue to be passive, unquestioning agents of military and national policies they found untenable.
Paramount in the program of COM is a fervent opposition to the continuing military effort in Vietnam. COM decries the military policies that turned an internal political struggle into a nation-destroying bloodbath. The application of American military power in Vietnam was as unnecessary as it was unworkable.

COM further abhors the military mentality that promotes absurd measures like the body count; that leads to the indiscriminate slaughter of innocent civilians; that destroys land and villages and calls it victory.While stating they were "loyal, responsible military officers", they supported "a cease-fire and the rapid disengagement of American troops from Southeast Asia", opposed the "preponderant share of national resources devoted to the military", and called for the "free expression of dissenting opinion" within the military.[3]
The fact that military officers had formed a group openly speaking out against the war and the U.S. military was unprecedented and quickly reached the national media. On June 3, 1970, The New York Times announced that the "antiwar movement has reached the United States military officers corps." "Calling themselves the Concerned Officers Movement, about 25 officers based in Washington, most of them Navy men, have banded together to provide a forum for what they say is growing disillusionment among their ranks with the Indochina war."[10]
COM continued to grow and on September 26, 1970, 28 members representing about 250 others on active duty from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps held a press conference in Washington, D.C. to announce "their intention to speak against the war in Vietnam" and "to encourage other officers to express antiwar opinions".[11]: 213  Font told the press, "I reject this war....I have asked myself time and again: 'When the law becomes a crime, consensus and conformity becomes a crime, am I to condone it?' My answer is no." Major Albert Braverman, a physician at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, stated that COM had active chapters at the Marine base at Camp Lejeune, NC, at Navy and Marine bases in Norfolk, VA, Pensacola, FL and San Diego, at Army bases at Fort Bragg, NC, and Fort Jackson, SC, at the Air Force base in Grand Forks, ND, and in Iceland and Hawaii.[4] They also read an open letter to Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird demanding an immediate withdrawal from the war written by LTJG John Kent, USN, an Annapolis graduate, all-American wrestler and jet fighter pilot, and signed by 29 officers of the San Diego chapter of COM ranging in rank from Ensign to Lieutenant Commander.[12][13][14]

COM carried out a variety of antiwar activities throughout 1970 and 1971. It published a newsletter, which by the fourth issue was called COMmon Sense, distributing it throughout the armed services.[3] It bought newspaper ads calling for an immediate withdrawal of American forces from Vietnam, wrote leaflets, printed posters and held press conferences. COM's Norfolk Naval Base chapter paid for a billboard outside the base that read Peace Now.[5] In May 1971, 29 officers from Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base took out a "scathing antiwar" ad in the Fayetteville Observer which they openly signed with name, rank and military branch. This was the first time this many military officers from one place publicly opposed the war. Soon, officers from Fort Jackson, Fort Knox and Minot Air Force Base were signing similar ads in their local papers. On September 13, 1971, over 130 officers from all over the U.S. signed a full-page antiwar ad in the Washington Post.[11]: 242–45  Initially, many COM members wanted to stay within the military and felt they had a right to express dissenting views. In fact, their third newsletter argued that responsible dissent "can and must be allowed to exist in the military, if it is to keep pace with the times in which we live." "We believe that such expressions of our convictions are within our rights, and that in expressing them, we are following our obligations as officers to defend the Constitution." The organization felt the armed forces were an insular and hidebound world and explored ways to establish the right of free speech for active duty servicemen, both officers and enlisted.[3]
The military, however, disagreed and in many cases reprimanded, discharged and transferred COM members soon after their participation became known. Within three weeks of their September 26, 1970 press conference many COM members were facing retaliation. One Navy doctor in the San Diego chapter was discharged on 48 hours' notice after making his membership known. Official military spokespeople blamed budget cutbacks or force reductions, but COM members were told privately they were being discharged due to their membership. The New York Times quoted a Pentagon spokesman who denied the existence of a "purge" of antiwar officers, but then went on to admit the military did get concerned when these officers "go public". He argued that public statements "[d]raw the radicals to them like bees to honey", making them "duck soup for radicals" and raising "questions about the officers' reliability." Ironically, some members who did want to get out were forced to stay in the military against their will and given orders transferring them to remote military bases like Adak, Alaska or even Vietnam.[12][15][16][5]
As a result, COM had a high turnover rate as the military discharged or transferred its members.[1] This, combined with its focus on active duty officers, meant the national organization was relatively short-lived, tapering off considerably by the end of 1971.[3]
In early 1971 COM created quite a stir by holding press conferences on both coasts calling for an investigation into the military's top brass for possible war crimes. Under the auspices of The National Committee for a Citizens Commission of Inquiry on U.S. War Crimes in Vietnam (Citizens Commission of Inquiry), COM held press conferences on January 12 in Washington, D.C. and January 20 in Los Angeles calling for an investigation into the "responsibility for war crimes of key military figures", including Generals William Westmoreland and Creighton Abrams, and Admiral Elmo Zumwalt. While formally they were only calling for an investigation, they presented evidence of war crimes and catastrophic environmental damage, leaving the impression they were accusing their own commanders of war crimes. The Washington, D.C. COM members involved were CPT Robert Master, USA, CPT Grier Merwin, USA, Fox, Font and LTJG Peter Dunkelberger, USN.[17] In Los Angeles were LT Norman Banks, USAF, LTJG Ted Shallcross, USN, LT James Skelly, USN, and Kent.[18][19][20]
Later that same year COM members used the military's own practice of encouraging the wearing of uniforms to religious services to conduct antiwar demonstrations in uniform, a prohibited activity under military regulations.[21] On April 23, 1971, ignoring warnings from higher ups that their actions would be considered a political demonstration, COM organized a memorial service at Washington's National Cathedral involving more than 250 officers in uniform honoring all the war dead, on both sides of the war.[22][1] On May 2, 45 officers and enlisted men from the San Diego Chapter wore their uniforms to a similar antiwar "religious" event in Exposition Park in Los Angeles led by a prominent antiwar Episcopal minister, George Regas.[23] As one of the men who participated later recalled in his memoir: "Thus, with one of our men playing the haunting lament on his bugle that is heard at military funerals, we marched with [a] coffin draped with the flags of the Viet Cong, North Vietnam, South Vietnam, and the United States."[24] No one was ever reprimanded or punished for these actions, probably because the military decided it would be better to ignore the whole thing and pretend it never happened.[3]
The San Diego COM, located in the principal homeport of the Pacific Fleet,[25] may have been the most active chapter and was certainly the longest lasting, continuing actively until late 1973.[26] The Chapter was initiated by Kent and local antiwar activist Jeannie Boyle and formally founded in July 1970 by Kent, LT Harold Appel, USN, Skelly and Shallcross.[13][27] Very quickly it broadened its outreach to include enlisted men and women and by 1972 had changed its name to Concerned Military.[23][26] On May 15, 1971, which they called Armed Farces Day, they hosted the touring FTA "political vaudeville" antiwar show, known to most GIs as the "Fuck The Army" Show, featuring Jane Fonda, Donald Sutherland, Peter Boyle, Dick Gregory, and Country Joe McDonald. The show, held in the auditorium of San Diego High School, was a tremendous success with a capacity crowd of over 2,400 enthusiastic sailors and marines, and contributed to the growth and reputation of the chapter.[23][24]
They also joined with other antiwar activists in major efforts to mobilize opposition to the departure for Vietnam of several aircraft carriers. The first of these projects attracted antiwar activists from all over California and was aimed at trying to keep the USS Constellation from sailing. The project was initiated by a group called San Diego Nonviolent Action, which united with COM to focus on the role of aircraft carriers. They had the initial goal of stopping the Constellation from returning to Vietnam through education and non-violent activity like a blockade or by preventing military personnel from getting to the naval base. Very quickly, this effort expanded into a multi-faceted campaign.[28][29]
As veteran antiwar activists, including Joan Baez and David Harris, became involved, Harris suggested organizing a citywide referendum on whether the Constellation should set sail.[30] This Constellation Vote became a major antiwar campaign over several months that led to a citywide straw vote in late September 1971 with 54,721 votes counted. Over 82% of voters elected to keep the ship home, including 73% of the military personnel who voted. While not a "real" vote, the impact on public opinion was appreciable.[31][32][23][33][34] Even an unsympathetic observer deemed the overall effort to stop the Constellation "an impressive campaign", and the commander-in-chief of the Pacific Fleet was quoted as saying "never was there such a concerted effort to entice American servicemen from their posts."[35]
A considerable amount of research was conducted into the role of aircraft carriers in modern warfare by Professor William Watson of MIT who was then a visiting Professor of History at UC San Diego.[36] He argued in a widely distributed pamphlet that aircraft carriers had become weapons "used to crush popular uprisings and to bully the weaker and poorer countries of the world."[37]
The involvement of large numbers of antiwar officers and enlisted men created significant debate in the traditionally pro-military town. It also permitted creative methods not normally available to other antiwar groups, such as the CONSTELLATION STAY HOME FOR PEACE banner frequently seen being towed over the city by recently retired navy flight instructor LT John Huyler, and the Constellation Vote stickers found everywhere on board the USS Constellation, including in the captain's personal bathroom.[38][39][24][40] Bathroom stickers weren't the only complication the captain had to deal with. Over 1,300 of the ship's sailors signed a petition requesting the FTA Show be allowed on board. The captain refused this request but then got himself in hot water by intercepting and destroying 2,500 pieces of U.S. mail sent by antiwar activists to crewmembers. Faced with a possible court of inquiry and health problems, the captain was removed from command before the ship sailed.[41][31]
When the Constellation actually did sail for Vietnam, no visible blockade occurred but nine of its crew publicly refused to go and took sanctuary in a local Catholic church, Christ the King, with the support of COM members and other activists. The "Connie 9" as they were quickly dubbed, were soon arrested in an early morning raid by US Marshals and flown back to the ship, but within weeks were honorably discharged from the navy.[42][43][44] This action led to other Stop Our Ship (SOS) campaigns in San Diego and other Navy ports in a wider effort to prevent navy ships from heading to Southeast Asia. "A strong resistance movement within the Seventh Fleet was led by COM and its local chapter."[1][44][45][46][47]
The chapter in Kodiak, Alaska was the only one started from the beginning to include all ranks, modifying its name accordingly to Concerned Servicemen’s Movement (CSM). It was initiated by Lt(jg) Norman Bleier from the San Diego COM chapter after his commanding officer deemed him such a problem that he was transferred to Kodiak "to freeze until your enlistment is up." This was not an unusual tactic for the Navy as another member of the Kodiak group, EM3 James Kelly, was also ordered there after initiating a Congressional investigation against the Navy for ignoring his medical condition.[6]: v1, iI, p4  And Kent, from the San Diego chapter, had also been given orders to Adak, Alaska, which he only avoided when a Federal Judge ordered the Navy to discharge him.[48]
Kodiak CSM, which included both U.S. Navy and Coast Guard personnel, became the most influential GI dissent group in Alaska, both by publishing a well written underground newsletter, FID,[6] and by playing a role in the founding of the influential environmental group Greenpeace. The group’s newsletter was named after a Fid, a traditional sailor's tool still used with knots and ropes. CSM considered FID a means to express its members First Amendment rights, while promoting discussion of the war, officer-enlisted relations, racism, and the ecology.[6]: v1, i1, p1  The group had a number of sympathizers onboard the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Confidence. Ironically, the Confidence was ordered to intercept and board the very first Greenpeace boat which was on its way to protest a powerful U.S. nuclear underground test on the island of Amchitka in 1971. Eighteen Confidence crewmen penned and then smuggled aboard a letter of support for the Greenpeace crew and voyage. Its message was clear, "Good luck. We are behind you one hundred percent." Shouts of "The U.S. Coast Guard is on our side" were heard on the protest vessel. This sympathetic action helped influence the members of the Greenpeace crew to found the organization we know today.[6]: v1, iVII, p11 [49]
At its height, COM had as many as 28 chapters in all the military branches and has been estimated to have "had approximately 3,000 members, including many supporters from the enlisted ranks." At one point it even had a chapter in the Pentagon.[22][1] It had no formal leadership, although various people stepped forward at different times to play central roles.[1] COM did not attract the media attention as dramatically as its more well-known partner and ally, Vietnam Veterans Against the War, but it played a key and underappreciated role in the antiwar movement of the early 1970s. The fact that officers not only resisted the war, but spoke out publicly and formed a significant organization, speaks to the depth of the anti-Vietnam War and anti-U.S. military sentiment in the U.S. at the time.
The Aston Martin DP215 is a prototype sports car built by Aston Martin for grand touring-style racing in 1963.  It was built alongside the similar DP214, both of which replaced the previous DP212.  Only a single example was built, which survives today.
Again using a DB4GT chassis, the DP215 was stylistically similar to the DP214, but had the advantage of not only being slightly lighter, but also using the larger 4.0-litre Tadek Marek Inline-6-cylinder engine which had previously powered DP212. Even though the car was also intended to carry the Tadek Marek designed 5-litre V8 engine, which later appeared in the Lola Aston T70 MkIII. Even so, with this increased power and decreased weight, the DP215 was seen as better suited to Le Mans' Mulsannes straight than the DP214.
The DP215 was sold at RM Sotheby's 2018 Monterey auction for $21,455,000 including buyer's fee.[1]
The car never had the ‘planned’ V8 fitted and it made do with a dry sump 4-litre version of the well-proven 6-cylinder, with twin plug head. More contentiously, it was also fitted with the weakest link from the older and lower-powered DBR1, its CG537 5-speed transaxle; clearly a big mistake and one admitted by John Wyer. Visually, and dimensionally, the body was the same as the DP214s but the bonnet line was 1.5 inches lower, enabled by the dry sump engine. The car was initially fitted with engine no. 400/215/1.
Debuting at the 1963 24 Hours of Le Mans, the lone DP215, driven by Lucien Bianchi and Phil Hill, started alongside the two DP214s. During practice the DP215 set a time of 3m 57.2s with Hill. During the race the DP215 was intended to be the ‘hare’ for the DP214s, trying to break the Ferraris, lapping at 4m 05s. Hill led away at the start but was passed by a Maserati on the Mulsanne Straight. On the sixth lap Hill was in fifth place, but unavoidably ran over debris from an accident of a car, who was about to be lapped. Hill pitted so the mechanics could see if any damage had been caused to the under carriage, but no damage was found and Hill was sent out again.
However, during the third hour (2hr 12m) after 29 laps, DP215 retired from the race whilst running ninth. The transmission had broken and the teeth on the input bevel failed; it was assumed that the extra torque of the 4-litre engine was responsible, as this had never happened to the DBR cars. Both DP214 cars would also suffer problems and be forced to retire. However, both DP214 and DP215, were the first cars officially recorded as exceeding 300 km/h (186 mph) down the Mulsanne. But, DP215 was the quickest of all. Phil Hill, in practice had been recorded at 319.6 km/h (198.6 mph) and Ted Cutting, the Aston Martin designer, is certain that DP215 had, in fact, exceeded 200 mph (320 km/h), since the timing was recorded before the cars had reached their maximum speed or the braking area. The car still remains the fastest front engined Aston Martin ever made, with Phil Hill describing the car as light and controllable at such speeds down the straight.[2][3]
Following Le Mans, the DP215 appeared at the 12 Hours of Reims (a race accompanying the French GP), driven by Jo Schlesser. The car should have won easily, due to no serious opposition in the field. But after leading, Schlesser was having more trouble with the repaired CG537 transmission. Having difficulty changing gear, and missing gears, which caused over-revving of the engine, leading to bending all the valves, forcing the car to retire on lap 4.
At the Guards Trophy at Brands Hatch, the car only completed a demonstration lap (driven by Bill Kimberley), due to financial/tax reasons. Shortly after the DP215 was rebuilt with more conventional transmission which allowed the fitting of the David Brown S532 5-speed box, which was also in the DP212. The car was soon retired from factory use as the DP214's proved more reliable.
In 1966, whilst being driven/tested on the M1 Motorway, DP215 was involved in an accident which badly damaged the car (at this time it carried the reg. no 'ENP 246B'). Whilst travelling at about 100 mph (160 km/h) on the motorway a slower Dormobile wandered out into the outside lane, with the Aston Martin unable to avoid a collision. Both vehicles were severely damaged but all occupants were unhurt. Aston Martin, not wishing to gain publicity over the accident, quickly sold the damaged engine and the remains of the car. The engine-less car was bought for scrap value, by Malcolm Calvert, from the Isle of Wight, who then began restoring it.
The car was rebuilt using a spare DP214/DP215 body and a dash, bought from the factory, with a DB6 engine planned to be installed, as the original engine had by then been fitted to DP214 (DB4GT/0194/R). The rare S532 gearbox had gone missing (possibly back as a spare to DP212) so, at this time a ZF gearbox, similar to those fitted to the V8 road cars was used to keep the car running. However the car was badly constructed, with the chassis still bent and the body shell being fitted to match this bent chassis. More inaccuracies were that the headlight openings were incorrect and the dry sump system was put in the wrong place. Finally, the car was fitted with Cobra wire wheels (not original Borrani) and not to mention the DB6 engine used.
The repaired car was then acquired by Nigel Dawes at a Sotheby's auction at Donington Park in April 1978. Dawes left the car as it was for several years, but hoped to get hold of the original engine which was sold on after the crash, but this had ended up being a spare for DP214 and converted to wet sump. Dawes then bought a 12 plug head, like the original and by luck obtained a 4.2-litre engine (engine no. 1293/420/2) taken from the Indianapolis Cooper-Aston in America. Forward Engineering then restored the engine remaking the dry sump system close to the original. Rubery Owen repaired the chassis based on the original drawings. Both the chassis and engine were then sent to Andy Chapman of Chapman Spooner who restored the engine to its former glory. With the engine producing 345 bhp (257 kW; 350 PS) at 5,750 rpm (330 lbs/ft of torque) and three 50 DCO Weber carburettors were sourced and added at great expense. Also, a lighter version of a 5-speed gearbox was fitted in the place of the ZF gearbox. The body shell was restored by Dawes with help of the original designer of the Le Mans series of cars, Ted Cutting. With a new roll cage being incorporated and a new fuel tank made as a copy of the original.
The interior was restored similar to the original, but this time there were a few differences. The gearbox was insulated and covered in leather, pockets had been built into the doors and a speedometer and electric fan was added for legality. Also Dawes bought another set of seats from the DP215 and matched the faded original cloth; he was none the wiser about where the second set of seats came from.
The 11 year restoration was completed in May 1991 and the car reappeared at a number of public events, but not raced. It was then that the car acquired the registration number’ XMO 88’. Soon after the car took part in the Ecurie Eccosse Tour. The car was then entered into the Louis Vuitton Concours at the Hurlingham Club, in London by Dawes and won first in class and was second overall.  In June the car went to Le Mans and took part in the Historic Parade. The car was then paraded around the Goodwood circuit by Roy Salvadori and Willie Green. DP215 then went to Italy and took part in the Motoring Tour with 40 other exotic cars. Later the project car was on the Aston Martin Owners Club (AMOC) exhibit at the NEC in Birmingham at the Classic Car Show.
In 1995 Dawes entered DP215 in the Goodwood Festival of Speed, which was the last outing of the car with Nigel Dawes. In 1996 the car was acquired by Anthony (Tony) J . Smith and again appeared at the Goodwood Festival of Speed. In 1997 Smith then entered at the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance in California. DP215 was entered again at the Goodwood Festival of Speed, this time with the Earl of Arundel at the wheel, and the car recorded the fastest time in the 24 Hour Heroes Part 2. Later that year DP215 went to the Silverstone Coy’s Festival but crashed during the practice session with Smith driving.
In 2000 at the Goodwood TT Revival the car finished 15th in the R.A.C. 1hr event with drivers of Tony Smith and Joachim Folch.
Around 2002, the project was acquired by Neil Corner, who swapped a precious F1 car in a deal for DP215. Corner then went to the great expense of having a brand new S532 gearbox built from scratch by Crosthwaite and Gardner, using the box from DP212 as the basis. As only 6 of the original S532 were ever made, with two going into the DBR2’s, two into the works racing Lagonda’s, one to DP212 and the missing one, which miraculously disappeared after the crash on the M1.
Corner consulted Ted Cutting throughout and with the help of Richard Williams, who also looks after DP212. Williams got consent from the owner of DP212 to clone the gearbox, but with over 1000 parts in the gearbox it was not an easy task for Crosthwaite and Gardner. However, the task was quickly completed and the gearbox was fitted with some alteration to the car, as this had been altered to accommodate the ZF gearbox.  There were a few problems with the box, with the synchromesh not being perfect, sometimes dropping out of third gear on the overrun and once locking in fifth gear. But these problems were not serious and the cloning of the box was a success.
In 2006 DP215 reappeared at the Goodwood Revival as part of the tribute to Phil Hill, in the Phil Hill Commemoration demonstration driven by Nigel Corner.
The 2022–23 Elite One was a season of the Elite One, the top-tier football league in Cameroon.
Coton Sport FC won their third consecutive title and 18th overall after winning all three games in the championship stage, including a 2–0 win over Canon Yaoundé on the final match day to clinch the title.[1][2]
Avion Academy escaped relegation after a ruling saw them awarded three points in their match against UMS de Loum after UMS fielded an ineligible player, relegating Djiko in Group A.[3]
YOSA de Bamenda defeated Eding 2–0 in the relegation playoff to remain in Elite One.[4]
The league was divided into two groups of 11 teams. The top two teams in each group qualified for the championship stage.
The Midland Railway branches around Walsall were built to give the Midland Railway independent access to Wolverhampton, and to a colliery district at Brownhills. The Midland Railway had a stake in the South Staffordshire Railway giving it access to Walsall, and the Walsall and Wolverhampton Railway (W&WR) was opened in 1872. At first the W&WR was independent and neutral, but it was acquired by the London and North Western Railway (LNWR), and then sold by that company to the Midland Railway.
The South Staffordshire Railway too was acquired by the LNWR and the Midland Railway's rights over it were uncertain. The Midland company sponsored the Wolverhampton, Walsall and Midland Junction Railway (WW&MJR), running east from Walsall to join the Midland Railway main line at Water Orton. It opened in 1879. A Brownhills branch line was opened from a junction on the WW&MJR line in 1882.
Although the Midland Railway got its desired access to Wolverhampton, the LNWR developed a network of lines that dominated the area, and the Midland never established itself, although it did open its own goods station at Wolverhampton. The W&WR section closed completely in 1965 and the WW&MJR section lost its passenger service in 1965, although it remains open for freight traffic and occasional special passenger trains.
Birmingham and the area to the west and north had been active in industry since well before the beginning of the nineteenth century. This was due to many factors, including the availability of raw materials, transport facilities on rivers and, later, canals, and relative freedom of employment. Iron production, and non-ferrous metal production were dominant, but many other industries were supported, including leather and glass, pottery, and for a time calico printing, although this last was not successful locally in the long term. There were extensive coal deposits near the surface, with iron ore and beds of fire clay.
A particular feature was specialist work, where companies provided components and raw materials to manufacturers elsewhere, who then assembled a finished product. For that reason, local transport within the area became increasingly important.[1][2]
The first modern railway in the area was the Grand Junction Railway, which opened its line in 1837, running from a station in Birmingham to Warrington, connecting on to Manchester and Liverpool.[3] Its somewhat roundabout route passed near, but not through, Walsall and Wolverhampton, both of them important industrial towns.[note 1][4] Neither place was given a convenient station. There was a Walsall station, well over a mile from the centre of the town, and there was a Wolverhampton station, a mile from the town centre. [5]
In 1846 the London and North Western Railway (LNWR) was formed by amalgamation of the Grand Junction Railway, the London and Birmingham Railway and the Manchester and Birmingham Railway. At once in control of a large geographical area, the LNWR set about expanding its network and deepening its control, in many cases by the use of affiliated local companies.[6]
The LNWR sponsored a nominally independent company called the Birmingham, Wolverhampton and Stour Valley Railway (BW&SVR); it was incorporated in 1846[7] and it was to build a direct line from Birmingham through Tipton to Wolverhampton, joining the old Grand Junction Railway route at Bushbury, north-west of Wolverhampton. The route became known as the Stour Valley Line. A new central station called New Street station was to be built in Birmingham. The BW&SVR was substantially completed in 1852 and immediately leased in perpetuity to the LNWR. It gave Wolverhampton a proper station, served directly from Birmingham. The Birmingham station was completed later, in 1854.[8][9]
The Midland Railway was formed in 1844 by amalgamation of earlier lines. It too had a large network and it too sought to expand its territory. In the Birmingham area it had a line north-eastwards to Burton upon Trent and Derby, and another south-westwards to Gloucester; these routes passed Birmingham on the eastern side, with an inconveniently located terminal at Lawley Street.[10]
The South Staffordshire Railway (SSR) was authorised by Parliament in 1847,[11] to build a line from Dudley through Walsall and Lichfield to join the Midland Railway main line at Wichnor, some distance south of Burton. This was to the Midland Railway's advantage, as with running powers over the SSR it would get access to Walsall and the manufacturing districts west of Birmingham. At the same time the LNWR could connect to the SSR and, with running powers, get access to Derby over the Midland Railway beyond Wichnor Junction. Relations between the Midland Railway and the LNWR were co-operative at the time, and the mutual benefit led the two companies to subscribe share capital to the SSR; private subscribers were also involved.[4]
The South Staffordshire Railway opened its first section from a temporary station in Walsall (at Bridgeman Place) to a junction on the GJR main line, called Bescot Junction, on 1 November 1847. This secured access to Walsall for the LNWR, but passenger transits from there to Birmingham had to go round to the east via Aston and Vauxhall.[12] The SSR pressed ahead with construction, and on 9 April 1849 it extended northwards from Walsall to Lichfield and Wichnor Junction.[13] At Walsall a well-appointed new station was opened in Station Street, a short distance further north of the temporary station, which was now closed. Now the Midland Railway too had access to Walsall, and the LNWR had its desired access to Derby.[14]
The line southwards to Dudley did not pass the Board of Trade inspection for passenger operation at first; goods traffic only, not needing the approval, started on 1 March 1850, and on 1 May 1850 the line southwards to Dudley from the Walsall to Bescot line was passed, and opened. This opening included an east-to-south spur enabling direct running from Bescot Junction (and Birmingham) to Dudley.[15]
With the opening of the Stour Valley Line in 1852, its station at Wolverhampton became the general station there for the LNWR group. From 1885 to 1972 it was called Wolverhampton High Level station, but since then it is the only Wolverhampton station and is simply named "Wolverhampton".[16][17]
The Oxford, Worcester and Wolverhampton Railway (OW&WR) was constructing its line from south to north; in 1852 it had reached Dudley, and in 1854 it reached Wolverhampton, where it had its own station.[18] The OW&WR station was later (1856 – 1972) called Wolverhampton Low Level. The Great Western Railway used it, also from 1854; [19] the OW&WR and the GWR eventually merged, but for now relations were strained. [20]
The old Grand Junction Railway route past Wolverhampton connected to the extension of the Stour Valley Line at Bushbury, north of Wolverhampton, but there was no convenient link from Wolverhampton to the GJR line east of Wolverhampton. There was considerable commercial trade between Walsall and Wolverhampton, and the poor railway connection was a source of dissatisfaction.[21]
A proposal was formulated for an independent "Walsall and Wolverhampton Railway" (W&WR), directly connecting them. A line about 6+1⁄2 miles long was planned; at Wolverhampton there were to be connections both to the BW&SVR station at Wolverhampton, and to the Oxford, Worcester and Wolverhampton Railway station. 
The projected route of the Walsall and Wolverhampton Railway was arranged to enter Walsall from the north, joining the South Staffordshire Railway at Ryecroft Junction.[22] The incorporation of the W&WR by Act of Parliament took place on 29 June 1865, but there were later several changes of plan, involving four Acts of Parliament intermediately before completion of construction.[23][24]
In particular, the route was changed: the line connecting to the Stour Valley Line at Wolverhampton was omitted, leaving only the connection at Wolverhampton to the GWR. The route into Walsall also changed, now approaching from the south, with a new station on the west side of the existing SSR station. The line would have had to make a huge sweep to the south as it approached Walsall to achieve this. A connection with the Stour Valley line was reinstated in a second Act, dated 23 July, 1866, specifying that a connection was to be made at Crane Street Junction, east of the Wolverhampton station. In the 1867 session of Parliament, the route at Walsall was altered to make a northern entry, at Ryecroft Junction, and this was authorised by Act of 12 August 1867.
Next in the 1868 session, minor changes were made to the alignment of the junction at Ryecroft, and a further small change was made at Willenhall. In addition, a branch railway in Wednesfield was inserted. This Act of 13 July 1868 also authorised a bridge to replace two level crossings.[25]
Construction proceeded, and the line was at last opened for passengers, and probably for goods, on 1 November 1872.[26][24] In the first years there seem to have been 8 or 9 return passenger train workings, worked by the LNWR.
During the planning phase, the W&WR had secured a commitment from the LNWR to use the W&WR for all relevant goods traffic between the towns. However once the line was in operation, the LNWR realised that it was to its advantage to forward such traffic over its own line (via the old GJR route or via Wednesbury), and it started to divert traffic that way. The W&WR was naturally displeased by this and sought a court order requiring compliance. They eventually had the requirement confirmed at arbitration, but this soured the co-operative spirit between the companies. The LNWR decided that, rather than fight the W&WR continually, absorption of the smaller company was the best way forward, and on 1 July 1875 Parliamentary authorisation for this was obtained. It took effect on 19 July 1875, from which date the W&WR ceased to exist.[27][23]
The Midland Railway was running to Wolverhampton, getting access to Walsall over the SSR, and onwards over the W&WR; but had no goods facilities of its own at Wolverhampton or Walsall. Already heavily dependent on LNWR good will, it now saw that in addition it was dependent on a line – the W&WR route – controlled by the LNWR, although it had the protection that statutory running powers offered.[27] At the same time the LNWR felt that the line was not a necessity to its own operation, and it agreed to transfer ownership of the W&WR to the Midland Railway. This took effect on 1 August 1876, ratified by Act of 11 August 1876.[23][24]
Accordingly the W&WR line was now part of the Midland Railway network. LNWR trains off the Grand Junction line entering Wolverhampton used a short length of the W&WR line from Crane Street Junction to Heath Town Junction, 30 chains, by running powers.[28]The Great Western Railway had running powers on the W&WR line for goods traffic from Heath Town Junction to Walsall.[29]
The South Staffordshire Railway too was becoming dominated by the LNWR. Originally the Midland Railway had seen this line as a useful access route to Walsall, but it appeared likely that difficulties lay ahead. The Midland Railway considered a more easterly connection to its network, on its main line at Water Orton. In the 1872 session of Parliament the Wolverhampton, Walsall & Midland Junction Railway Act was passed on 6 August 1872.[23][30] This authorised a line from Ryecroft Junction and North Walsall to Castle Bromwich, joining the Midland Railway. The line was sponsored by the Midland Railway and extensive running powers were granted. A west to north curve was also authorised from North Walsall, which would have enabled direct running from Wolverhampton towards Wichnor over the SSR, but this was never built.
The following year a further Act was obtained, authorising the formation of a triangular junction at Castle Bromwich, from Park Lane Junction to Water Orton Junction, leading towards Burton on the Midland Railway main line. The following year yet another Act (of 18 July 1874) authorised the vesting of the WW&MJR in the Midland Railway.[31][30] The line opened for goods trains on 19 May 1879 and for passenger traffic on 1 July 1879.[32][30]
The Midland Railway considered Wolverhampton to be an important commercial centre, and wanted to construct ample terminal facilities there. It planned to open its own passenger station alongside the GWR station, but the LNWR announced its intention to enlarge its own facilities there in a way that conflicted. It also informed the Midland of its intention to discontinue the running powers into its Wolverhampton station, from June 1879. In fact the running powers existed by virtue of an Act of Parliament, and the intention to discontinue was unlawful, and was later dropped. The Midland obtained tenders for its station at Wolverhampton, which would have been a relatively modest two-platform station. However relations with the LNWR improved and it was agreed that the Midland would be granted adequate facilities in the LNWR station. The Midland Railway decided that it did not need its own passenger station, but it did build its own goods facilities, and these opened on 4 October 1880.[33]
The Midland Railway decided to make a canal transshipment point at Wolverhampton; it was on the Wyrley and Essington Canal, immediately south-west of Heath Town Junction, where the short branch joined the WW&MJR line. This was ready by the early summer of 1883. It became known as Wolverhampton Canal Depot, but after World War I canal traffic declined and the depot fell into disuse. It was formally closed in 1969.[34]
Midland Railway accommodation at Walsall too was inadequate, and in 1876 the LNWR indicated that the Midland Railway needed to arrange its own independent goods depot there. With supportive co-operation from the town council, a site was found to the east of the (LNWR) passenger station, and was brought into use in August 1880.[35] The Midland Railway also required its own engine shed and depot at Walsall, and the opportunity was taken to build that at the southern end of the goods station site, on the east side of the line from Walsall station to Bescot. It came into use in September 1880.[36] 
The goods depot was redeveloped as a goods concentration depot in 1962, but the decline in wagonload freight meant that its use did not endure.[36]
The development of collieries in the Cannock Chase area spurred the construction of the Brownhills branch, running northwards from Aldridge. The first part was authorised in the Midland Railway (New Works) Act 13 July 1876, from Aldridge to Walsall Wood, a distance of 2 miles 3 furlongs. In 1880 the extension to Cannock was authorised. The southern part of the line was line was available for traffic on 30 April 1881, and throughout for mineral traffic from 1 April 1882. [37][38] A passenger service started on 1 July 1884, between Aldridge and Brownhills, with an intermediate station at Walsall Wood. There were three passenger trains a day. The Brownhills station was little used as it was inconveniently located, and there was a better station on the Lichfield line. The line was double track and the mineral traffic was heavy.[38][39]
After the Grouping of the railways, Sutton Coldfield Town station was closed from 1 January 1925. The LMS preferred passengers to use the former LNWR line. There was a petition against the withdrawal, but it closed nonetheless.[40]
On the Midland taking over the Wolverhampton line in 1879, the total passenger train service frequency increased considerably, with many trains running through to Birmingham via Walsall (reverse) and Sutton Park, and in a limited number of cases to Derby. From 1 January 1909 Midland Railway trains were switched to the LNWR route between Walsall and Wolverhampton, and some LNWR used the Midland Railway route via Willenhall to avoid reversal at Walsall.[23]
Writing in 1915, Groves said that the stations on the line with the exception of Heath Town "have a considerable goods traffic in both directions. Midland stations between Walsall and Wolverhampton have from 5 to 8 (mostly London and North Western) trains each way daily." The reference is to passenger trains, some of which omitted some stations on the line.[29] "Four freight trains each way daily use the North Walsall and Aldridge direct line [the avoiding line from North Walsall Junction to Lichfield Road Junction]. Fourteen [passenger] trains each way run daily, most of these being to or from Birmingham."[29]
In early 1917 sections of the two routes, Sutton Park to Aldridge on 7 January and North Walsall to Willenhall from 4 February, were converted to single track, the released materials being taken to France. Double track was restored on 20 March and 8 May 1921 respectively.[41]
In 1895 the train service consisted of 11 trains each way, mostly travelling throughout from Birmingham to Wolverhampton, reversing at Walsall. there were three services each way on Sundays. [42] A similar pattern applied in 1910. The Brownhill branch had three trains Mondays to Friday and five on Saturdays, in 1895. In 1910 this had reduced to three and 4 respectively.
In 1922 the service on the Sutton Park section was slightly reduced, and the Walsall to Wolverhampton service was reduced to three trains each way, seven days a week. There were two trains a day, weekdays only, on the Brownhills line. [43]
In 1923 the Midland Railway, and also the LNWR, were formed into the new London Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) as part of a process known as the "grouping", following the Railways Act 1921. In 1948 the LMS was taken into national ownership, as part of British Railways, following the Transport Act 1947.
The Brownhills branch passenger service was never busy, and it was withdrawn from 31 March 1930. [44]
Urban tram services severely affected passenger business on the lines west of Walsall, and over time the train frequency was reduced accordingly. Combined with the impact of the more convenient ex-LNWR route, this made the passenger business unsustainable and the line passenger service from Walsall to Wolverhampton was discontinued on 5 January 1931. At the same time the section east of Walsall, running through the "leafy eastern outskirts of Birmingham"[28] remained relatively buoyant. [45]
The W&WR route was briefly reopened for passenger traffic in July and August 1942. Enemy bombing had resulted in the blockage of the LNWR route at Willenhall, and the W&WR line provided a temporary emergency alternative.[45]
Diesel multiple units took over the passenger service on the Sutton Park line from 17 November 1958.[46] Nevertheless as part of a national review of unremunerative passenger services, it was decided that the passenger service was not to continue, and it was withdrawn from 18 January 1965.[47]
The direct line between Lichfield Rd Jn and North Walsall had never had an ordinary passenger service. It usefulness as a goods train route was nullified by the severing of the W&WR line near Bentley for the construction of the M6 motorway on 28 September 1964. Through trains on the line had been ended since 10 August.[48] Accordingly the Lichfield Road Junction to North Walsall line was closed from 1 January 1965, although it remained in suspense until formally closed on 1 May 1967.[49]
The Sutton Park line was downgraded to a freight-only route from 7 January 1968; on the same date the spur from Park Lane Junction to Water Orton Junction was singled. The spur from Park Lane Junction to Castle Bromwich Junction was singled on 3 August 1969.[48] Meanwhile, the section from Ryecroft Junction to Birchills Power Station continued in use until 12 May 1980.[50] While this continued, Ryecroft Junction could claim to be Britain's last four-route junction.[28] The Sutton Park line was restored to passenger operation for through trains on 2 December 1984.[48]
Jorge Gómez Baillo (born 19 April 1959), is an Argentine chess International Master (IM) (1986), Argentine Chess Championship winner (1983), Chess Olympiad individual gold medalist (1988).
Jorge Gómez Baillo was one of Argentina's leading chess players in the 1980s. Multiple medalist of the Argentine Chess Championships:[1]
Jorge Gómez Baillo played for Argentina in the Chess Olympiads:[2]
Jorge Gómez Baillo played for Argentina in the World Team Chess Championship:[3]
Jorge Gómez Baillo played for Argentina in the Pan American Team Chess Championship:[4]
Jorge Gómez Baillo played for Argentina in the South American Team Chess Championship:[5]
Jorge Gómez Baillo played for Argentina in the World Youth U26 Team Chess Championships:[6]
In 1986, he was awarded the FIDE International Master (IM) title.

This biographical article relating to an Argentine chess figure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Lawrence Humphrey (or Laurence Humfrey) DD (1525/7? – 1 February 1589)[1] was an English theologian, who was President of Magdalen College, Oxford, and Dean successively of Gloucester and Winchester.[2]
Humphrey was born at Newport Pagnell, Buckinghamshire, England. He was first educated at the University of Cambridge.[3]
He was elected to a demy at Magdalen College in 1546 and Fellow in 1548. He graduated BA in. 1549, MA in 1552, and BD and DD in 1562. He was noted as one of the most promising pupils of Pietro Martire Vermigli, and on Mary's accession obtained leave from his college to travel abroad. He lived at Basel, Zürich, Frankfurt and Geneva, making the acquaintance of the leading Swiss divines, whose ecclesiastical views he adopted. His leave of absence having expired in 1556, he ceased to be fellow of Magdalen.
Humphrey returned to England at Elizabeth I's accession, was appointed regius professor of divinity at Oxford in 1560, and was recommended by Archbishop Parker and others for election as President of Magdalen College. The fellows refused at first to elect so pronounced a reformer, but they yielded in 1561, and Humphrey gradually converted the college into a stronghold of Puritanism.
In 1564, Humphrey and his friend Thomas Sampson, Dean of Christ Church, Oxford, were called before Parker for refusing to wear the prescribed ecclesiastical vestments; and a prolonged struggle, the vestments controversy, broke out, in which Bullinger and other foreign theologians took part as well as most of the leading divines in England. In spite of Bullinger's advice, Humphrey refused to conform; and Parker wished to deprive him as well as Sampson. But the presidency of Magdalen was elective and the visitor of the college was not Parker but the Bishop of Winchester; and Humphrey escaped with temporary retirement. Parker, in fact, was not supported by the council; in 1566 Humphrey was selected to preach at St Paul's Cross, and was allowed to do so without the vestments.
In the same year, Humphrey took a prominent part in the ceremonies connected with Elizabeth's visit to Oxford. On this occasion he wore his doctor's gown and habit, which the queen told him became him very well; and his resistance now began to weaken. He yielded on the point before 1571 when he was made dean of Gloucester. In 1578 he was one of the divines selected to attend a diet at Schmalkalde to discuss the project of a theological accommodation between the Lutheran and Reformed churches; and in 1580 he was made Dean of Winchester. In 1585 he was persuaded by his bishop, Cooper, to restore the use of surplices in Magdalen College chapel. He died on 1 February 1590 and was buried in the college chapel, where there is a mural monument to his memory; a portrait is in Magdalen College school.
Humphrey was a prolific writer on theological and other subjects. At Parker's request, he wrote a life of his friend and patron Bishop Jewel, which was published in 1573 and was also prefixed to the edition of Jewel's works issued in 1600. One of his books against the Jesuits was included in vol. iii. of the Doctrina Jesuitarum per van os authores, published at La Rochelle (6 volumes, 1585–1586).
About the beginning of the reign of Elizabeth I, Lawrence married Joan Inkfordby, daughter of Andrew Inkfordby of Ipswich. By her he had seven sons and five daughters.  Joan died 27 August 1611 "aged 74" and was buried at the church of Steeple Barton in Oxfordshire.  Her eldest daughter Justina Dormer, wife of Caspar Dormer, esquire, erected a monument to her memory there.  Her third daughter Judith was the third wife of Sir Edmund Carey (died 1637), brother of the Earl of Monmouth.
HD 50554 b is a Jupiter-sized exoplanet with a minimum mass 4.4 times that of Jupiter. The planet was announced in 2001 by the European Southern Observatory and formally published in 2002 using observations from the Lick and Keck telescopes.[1][2] In 2023, the inclination and true mass of HD 50554 b were determined via astrometry.[3]
This extrasolar-planet-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Oruj Qeshlaq-e Hajj Esmail (Persian: اروج قشلاق حاج اسماعيل, also Romanized as Orūj Qeshlāq-e Ḩājj Esmā‘īl)[1] is a village in Qeshlaq-e Shomali Rural District, in the Central District of Parsabad County, Ardabil Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 60, in 10 families.[2]
This Parsabad County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Levi Newton Breed (December 4, 1831 – December 17, 1908) was an active and early American participant in 19th Century California, where he helped organize Lassen County and was a member of the Los Angeles Common Council, the governing body of that city.
Breed was born in Manlius, Onondaga County, New York on December 4, 1831. When he was 4 years old, his family moved to Hannibal, New York, and Breed worked on his father's farm and attended school until 1850, when he moved to Schuyler County, Illinois, where he again farmed and went to school for two more years.[1][2]
Breed married Samantha Blood of New York on September 21, 1861. She died August 19, 1867, leaving a 5-year-old son, Frederick Arthur. He married again to Annie J. Blunt of Maine on May 28, 1870. They had one daughter, Lillian M.[2] Frederick Arthur was killed in a train wreck in New Mexico in February 1885.[3]
In 1893 the Breeds were living at the Hotel Nadeau in Los Angeles.[4]
He was a Mason and a Republican.[2][5]
Breed died December 17, 1908, at the Hotel Stewart in San Francisco, leaving his wife and their daughter; the latter had married Charles C. Moore of San Francisco.[1][4]
In 1850 or 1853 Breed traveled to San Francisco and arrived there with just 50 cents to his name. His brother bought for him a newspaper route, of the Times and Transcript, for $700. "Within two months the paper was suspended, and the investment was lost."[1][2]
Breed became a miner, at one time partnering with T.P. Kingsbury. Later he went to Honey Lake Valley, now a part of  Lassen County, where he was the third Caucasian settler, and he opened a trading post in Indian Valley in 1856, having bought a "small stock of goods" from E.D. Hosselkus and T.J. Harvey.[2]
In 1858 or 1859 he went north to the Fraser Canyon Gold Rush In British Columbia but returned without much additional wealth, and in the fall of 1860 he returned to Honey Lake. He was in Indian Valley for a year but came back to Honey Lake and bought a store, or trading post, in Janesville. He also owned farmland and timber.[1][2]
Breed was one of the men who took part in a battle between the white settlers and the native Washoe Indians, of whom seven to eleven Indians were killed and fourteen were wounded and one white man was wounded.[2]
By 1858 Breed's brother, J.H. (Jut) Breed, was also living in Honey Lake Valley.[2]
In 1859, it was said that:
L.N. Breed sold goods and whiskey in a little shack that stood on the east side of Piute creek. . . . a crowd of emigrants from Missouri came into his place and a big fellow asked him what he charged for a horn of whiskey, the term meaning a drink. Breed named his price, probably twenty-five cents, and the man immediately drew a great ox horn from beneath his coat and said he would take one. The cheapest way to get out of it was to treat the crowd[,] and this Breed did when the laugh had subsided.[2]In 1861 L.N. Breed bought his brother's share of  a trading post they ran in Smoke Creek, and later he built a store in Janesville, renting out the second floor as a lodge room for the Masons and the Odd Fellows. He remained "the merchant of Janesville for seventeen or eighteen years."[2]
Breed and a settler named Smith J. Hill named the community of Janesville, California, in honor of Hill's daughter Jane.[2]
Breed took an active part in a knotty California-Nevada boundary dispute in 1857. He was the secretary of a group of Honey Lake men who, "entertaining very reasonable doubts of our being within the limits of the state of California, and believing that until the eastern boundary of the state of California is determined by the proper authorities that no county or counties have a right to extend their jurisdiction over us," refused to accept the authority of Plumas County in appointing officers and organizing an election in their valley. They also took steps to ask Congress to organize a new territory in their area and pledged to "prevent the polls being opened."[2]
By 1864, the area had become part of Lassen County, and Breed was appointed one of three commissioners to organize divide the area into districts and organize the election. In 1867, Breed was elected a constable for Janesville, and by 1869 he was named postmaster of a new post office in that town and also became county clerk that year.[2]
In 1881 he moved to Los Angeles to retire, but he instead became "one of the most successful real estate operators and investors" in that city. In 1885 he was elected to the Common Council from the 3rd Ward, and the next year he was named council president.[6]
Breed was a member of the first city Board of Fire Commissioners in 1887.[7]
He was an organizer of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce and was its treasurer from 1889 to 1895.[1][8]
Breed was one of t'he founders of the Southern National Bank, which later became Merchants National, and was its president until 1898.[8]
During his time in Los Angeles, he made two lengthy trips: One to Alaska in 1888 and one to Hawaii in 1895. Of the former, he said that "so far there is very little of the country settled up, except for miners and traders, and the indication for solid growth are not very favorable."[9] Of the latter, he said that
"The natives are an indolent, but good-tempered and hospitable, race of people, who live only for today, giving no thought for tomorrow, and caring very little for anything except their present enjoyment. They are rapidly decreasing in numbers, and will soon become entirely extinct. . . . All the best people will stand by the present [counterrevolutionary] government . . . and are strongly in favor of annexation to the United States. What Honolulu needs at the present time is a sewer system and cable connections" with the United States.[10]In Los Angeles, Breed was interested in street improvements, "and the laying out of the city's parks. To his efforts is due much of the credit for the present park system" of the city.[1]  In his will, he bequeathed an amount to erect a monument in his memory, and ny 1939, the sum had grown to $5,000: In that year his heirs presented a plan for "an ornamental standard bearing a cluster of five lights at a height of 12 feet, the base to consist of marble in the form of 15 separate seats, arranged like the petals of a large flower." City park commissioners, though, were hesitant because of the possibility of vandalism.[11]
Breed Street in Boyle Heights, Los Angeles was named for him.[8]
The Tibetan National Football Association was founded in 2001, soon after the authorization was delivered by the Kashag (the Tibet Cabinet), and registration under Indian law.[1] Jetsun Pema, the sister of the 14th Dalai Lama is the president of the association, Thupten Dorjee the secretary, and Kalsang Dhondup the executive secretary. The association is now organizing the Gyalyum Chenmo Memorial Gold Cup GCMGC football tournament which existed already in the 1980s. In 2003, the 17th Karmapa was the chief guest on the first day of the tournament which took place at the Tibetan Children's Village in Dharamsala.[2]
Mr. Shrikant Baldi, Deputy Commissioner of Kangra, was the chief guest in 2004 for the  tournament.[3] The 13th GCMGC, took place in 2007, and the chief guest was Khenchen Menling Tri Rinpoche of Mendroling Monastery.[4] The 14th took place in 2008, and the chief guest was Khyabje Ling Rinpoche.[5]

This article about an association football-related organization is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Tibet-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
O.C. McDavid (May 30, 1911 - March 12, 1998) was an American newspaper editor, painter and sculptor. He was the managing editor of the Jackson Daily News from 1969 to 1977. He is the namesake of the annual O.C. McDavid Journalism Conference of the Mississippi Press Association, and his artwork can be seen on the campuses of Mississippi College and Delta State University.
McDavid was born on May 30, 1911, in Ruth, Mississippi.[1][2]
McDavid began his career at the McComb Enterprise in McComb.[2] He was the owner of the Perry County Herald in New Augusta in 1934-1935, the manager of the Mississippi Press Association, and the news editor of the Gulf Post Guide in Gulfport in 1936, only to return to the McComb Enterprise as advertising manager.[2] He was the state editor of the Jackson Daily News from 1938 to 1940, when his National Guard unit was mobilized for World War II. He edited the 31st Division's newspaper The Dixie and served as a medical administrator for the division throughout its service in the Southwest Pacific. He returned home in 1945 and became the editor of the Columbian-Progress in Columbia in 1946. He was the owner of the Wilk-Amite Record in Gloster, Mississippi, in 1947-1949, and the Tylertown Times in Tylertown form 1949 to 1953.[2] He was the state editor of the Times-Picayune in New Orleans, Louisiana in 1953, the co-publisher of the Jackson State Times 1954-1956, and the Mississippi editor of The Birmingham News in 1956.[2] He rejoined the Jackson Daily News in 1957, and he was its managing editor from 1969 to 1977.[1][2][3] He was also an art columnist, and he retired from journalism in 1981.[2][3]
McDavid became a painter and a sculptor in the 1980s-1990s.[2] His artwork can be seen on the campus of Mississippi College in Clinton,[1] and at the Delta State University Art Center in Cleveland.[4]
With his first wife Inez, McDavid had four children, including Gene McDavid,[1] who became an executive for the Houston Chronicle.[5] McDavid died of respiratory failure on March 12, 1998, in Jackson, Mississippi, at age 86.[1][3][6] The annual O.C. McDavid Journalism Conference of the Mississippi Press Association was named in his memory.[7]

This biographical article about a print editor of the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Mississippi-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ithaca is a town in Richland County, Wisconsin, United States. The population was 648 at the 2000 census. The unincorporated communities of Aubrey, Bear Valley, Ithaca, Keyesville, and Neptune are located in the town.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 36.0 square miles (93.3 km2), all of it land.
As of the census[2] of 2000, there were 648 people, 249 households, and 187 families residing in the town. The population density was 18.0 people per square mile (6.9/km2). There were 275 housing units at an average density of 7.6 per square mile (2.9/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 98.61% White, 0.15% African American, 0.62% Asian, and 0.62% from two or more races.
There were 249 households, out of which 31.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 67.5% were married couples living together, 4.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.5% were non-families. 20.5% of all households were made up of individuals, and 8.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.60 and the average family size was 3.02.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 25.2% under the age of 18, 9.0% from 18 to 24, 25.6% from 25 to 44, 23.3% from 45 to 64, and 17.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 39 years. For every 100 females, there were 105.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 105.5 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $42,222, and the median income for a family was $49,583. Males had a median income of $29,500 versus $20,667 for females. The per capita income for the town was $17,358. About 4.0% of families and 5.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 9.1% of those under age 18 and 4.9% of those age 65 or over.
Ithaca is also home of Ithaca High School,[3] a grade school (with junior high attending Ithaca High School), and Willow Valley United Methodist Church. The town also holds an annual fair on Saturday in late September/early October featuring a dairy cow show, judging other animals including sheep and pigs, crafts show and the highlight is the parade on state Highway 58, the Homecoming game for the Ithaca Bulldogs and Homecoming dance that Saturday night.
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC /ˈeɪpɛk/ AY-pek[1]) is an inter-governmental forum for 21 member economies in the Pacific Rim that promotes free trade throughout the Asia-Pacific region.[2] Following the success of ASEAN's series of post-ministerial conferences launched in the mid-1980s,[3] APEC started in 1989,[4] in response to the growing interdependence of Asia-Pacific economies and the advent of regional trade blocs in other parts of the world; it aimed to establish new markets for agricultural products and raw materials beyond Europe.[5] Headquartered in Singapore,[6] APEC is recognized as one of the highest-level multilateral blocs and oldest forums in the Asia-Pacific region,[7] and exerts significant global influence.[8][9][10][11]
The heads of government of all APEC members except Taiwan (which is represented by a ministerial-level official as economic leader)[12] attend an annual APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting. The location of the meeting rotates annually among the member economies, and a famous tradition, followed for most (but not all) summits, involves the attending leaders dressing in a national costume of the host country. APEC has three official observers: the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Secretariat, the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council and the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat.[13] APEC's Host Economy of the Year is considered to be invited in the first place for geographical representation to attend G20 meetings following G20 guidelines.[14][15]
The initial inspiration for APEC came when ASEAN's series of post-ministerial conferences, launched in the mid-1980s, had demonstrated the feasibility and value of regular conferences among ministerial-level representatives of both developed and developing economies. By 1986, the post-ministerial conferences had expanded to embrace 12 members (the then six members of ASEAN and its six dialogue partners). The developments led  Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke to believe in the necessity of region-wide co-operation on economic matters. In January 1989, Bob Hawke called for more effective economic co-operation across the Pacific Rim region. This led to the first meeting of APEC in the Australian capital of Canberra in November, chaired by  Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Gareth Evans. Attended by ministers from twelve countries, the meeting concluded with commitments to hold future annual meetings in Singapore and South Korea. Ten months later, representatives of 12 Asia-Pacific economies met in Canberra, Australia, to establish APEC. The APEC Secretariat, based in Singapore, was established to co-ordinate the activities of the organisation.[4][5]
During the 1994 meeting in Bogor, Indonesia, APEC leaders adopted the Bogor Goals, which aimed for free and open trade and investment in the Asia-Pacific by 2010 for industrialised economies and by 2020 for developing economies. During the November 1995 Ministerial Meeting in Osaka, Japan, a business advisory body named the APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC) composed of three business executives from each member-country was agreed to be established in 1996.[16][17]
In April 2001, APEC, in collaboration with five other international organisations (Eurostat,  IEA, OLADE [es], OPEC and the  UNSD) launched the Joint Oil Data Exercise, which in 2005 became the Joint Organisations Data Initiative (JODI).
The location of the annual meeting rotates among the members.
Currently, APEC has 21 members. The criterion for membership, however, is that each member must be an independent economic entity, rather than a sovereign state. As a result, APEC uses the term member economies rather than member countries to refer to its members. One result of this criterion is that membership of the forum includes Taiwan (officially the Republic of China, participating under the name "Chinese Taipei") alongside People's Republic of China (see Cross-Strait relations), as well as Hong Kong, which entered APEC as a British colony but it is now a Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China. APEC also includes three official observers: ASEAN, the Pacific Islands Forum and the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council.[2]
India has requested membership in APEC, and received initial support from the United States, Japan,[25] Australia and Papua New Guinea.[26] Officials have decided not to allow India to join for various reasons, including the fact that India does not border the Pacific Ocean, which all current members do.[27] However, India was invited to be an observer for the first time in November 2011.[28]
Bangladesh,[29] Pakistan,[29] Sri Lanka,[29] Macau,[29] Mongolia,[29] Laos,[29] Cambodia,[30] Costa Rica,[31] Colombia,[31][32] Panama,[31] and Ecuador,[33] are among a dozen other economies that have applied for membership in APEC. Colombia applied for APEC's membership as early as in 1995, but its bid was halted as the organisation stopped accepting new members from 1993 to 1996,[34] and the moratorium was further prolonged to 2007 due to the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis. Guam has also been actively seeking a separate membership, citing the example of Hong Kong, but the request is opposed by the United States, which currently represents Guam.[citation needed]
As a regional organization, APEC has always played a leading role in the area of reform initiatives in the area of business facilitation. The APEC Trade Facilitation Action Plan (TFAPI) has contributed to a reduction of 6% in the cost of business transactions across the region between 2002 and 2006. According to APEC's projections, the cost of conducting business transactions will be reduced by another 5% between 2007 and 2010. To this end, a new Trade Facilitation Action Plan has been endorsed. According to a 2008 research brief published by the World Bank as part of its Trade Costs and Facilitation Project, increasing transparency in the region's trading system is critical if APEC is to meet its Bogor Goal targets.[35] The APEC Business Travel Card, a travel document for visa-free business travel within the region is one of the concrete measures to facilitate business. In May 2010 Russia joined the scheme, thus completing the circle.[36]
APEC first formally started discussing the concept of a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP) at its summit in 2006 in Hanoi. However, the proposal for such an area has been around since at least 1966 and Japanese economist Kiyoshi Kojima [ja]'s proposal for a Pacific Free Trade agreement proposal. While it gained little traction, the idea led to the formation of Pacific Trade and Development Conference and then the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council in 1980 and then APEC in 1989.
In the wake of the 2006 summit, economist C. Fred Bergsten advocated a Free Trade Agreement of Asia-Pacific, including the United States amongst the proposed parties to any agreement at that time.[37] His ideas convinced the APEC Business Advisory Council to support this concept. Relatedly, ASEAN and existing free trade agreement (FTA) partners negotiated the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), not officially including Russia.[38] The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) without China or Russia involved became the US-promoted trade negotiation in the region. At the APEC summit in Beijing in 2014, the three plans were all in discussion.[39] President Obama hosted a TPP meeting at the US Embassy in Beijing in advance of the APEC gathering.[40]
The proposal for a FTAAP arose due to the lack of progress in the Doha round of World Trade Organization negotiations, and as a way to overcome the "noodle bowl" effect created by overlapping and conflicting elements of the copious free trade agreements – there were approximately 60 free trade agreements in 2007, with an additional 117 in the process of negotiation in Southeast Asia and the Asia-Pacific region.[41] In 2012, ASEAN+6 countries alone had 339 free trade agreements – many of which were bilateral.[e]
The FTAAP is more ambitious in scope than the Doha round, which limits itself to reducing trade restrictions. The FTAAP would create a free trade zone that would considerably expand commerce and economic growth in the region.[41][43] The economic expansion and growth in trade could exceed the expectations of other regional free trade areas such as the ASEAN Plus Three (ASEAN + China, South Korea and Japan).[44] Some criticisms include that the diversion of trade within APEC members would create trade imbalances, market conflicts and complications with nations of other regions.[43] The development of the FTAAP is expected to take many years, involving essential studies, evaluations and negotiations between member economies.[41] It is also affected by the absence of political will and popular agitations and lobbying against free trade in domestic politics.[41][45]
At the 2014 APEC summit in Beijing, APEC leaders agreed to launch "a collective strategic study" on the FTAAP and instruct officials to undertake the study, consult stakeholders and report the result by the end of 2016.[46] APEC Executive Director Alan Bollard revealed in the Elite Talk show that FTAAP will be APEC's big goal out into the future.[47]
The Trans-Pacific Partnership included 12 of the 21 APEC members and had provisions for the accession of other APEC members, five of which expressed interest in membership.
In 1993, APEC Leaders decided to establish a network of APEC Study Centres (APCs) among universities and research institutions in member economies. The purpose is to foster cooperation among tertiary and research institutes of member economies, thus having better academic collaboration on key regional economic challenges. To encourage independence from the APEC conference, the APCs are funded independently and choose their own research topics.[48]
As of December 2018, there are 70 APCs among the member economies. An annual conference is usually held in the host economy for that year.[48]
The APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC) was created by the APEC Economic Leaders in November 1995 with the aim of providing advice to the APEC Economic Leaders on ways to achieve the Bogor Goals and other specific business sector priorities, and to provide the business perspective on specific areas of co-operation.[49][50]
Each economy nominates up to three members from the private sector to ABAC. These business leaders represent a wide range of industry sectors. ABAC provides an annual report to APEC Economic Leaders containing recommendations to improve the business and investment environment in the Asia-Pacific region, and outlining business views about priority regional issues. ABAC is also the only non-governmental organisation that is on the official agenda of the APEC Economic Leader's Meeting.[51]

Since its formation in 1989, APEC has held annual meetings with representatives from all member economies. The first four annual meetings were attended by ministerial-level officials. Beginning in 1993, the annual meetings are named APEC Economic Leaders' Meetings and are attended by the heads of government from all member economies except Taiwan, which is represented by a ministerial-level official. Despite a similar nature, the annual Leaders' Meetings are not called summits.
In 1997, the APEC meeting was held in Vancouver. Controversy arose after officers of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police used pepper spray against protesters. The protesters objected to the presence of autocratic leaders such as Indonesian president Suharto.[52][53][54][55][56][57]
At the 2001 Leaders' Meeting in Shanghai, APEC leaders pushed for a new round of trade negotiations and support for a program of trade capacity-building assistance, leading to the launch of the Doha Development Agenda a few weeks later. The meeting also endorsed the Shanghai Accord proposed by the United States, emphasising the implementation of open markets, structural reform, and capacity building. As part of the accord, the meeting committed to develop and implement APEC transparency standards, reduce trade transaction costs in the Asia-Pacific region by 5 percent over 5 years, and pursue trade liberalisation policies relating to information technology goods and services.
In 2003, Jemaah Islamiah leader Riduan Isamuddin had planned to attack the APEC Leaders Meeting to be held in Bangkok in October. He was captured in the city of Ayutthaya, Thailand by Thai police on 11 August 2003, before he could finish planning the attack.
Chile became the first South American nation to host the Leaders' Meeting in 2004. The agenda of that year was focused on terrorism and commerce, small and medium enterprise development, and contemplation of free agreements and regional trade agreements.
The 2005 Leaders' Meeting was held in Busan, South Korea. The meeting focused on the Doha round of World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations, leading up to the WTO Ministerial Conference of 2005 held in Hong Kong in December. Weeks earlier, trade negotiations in Paris were held between several WTO members, including the United States and the European Union, centred on reducing agricultural trade barriers. APEC leaders at the summit urged the European Union to agree to reduce farm subsidies. In a continuation of the climate information sharing initiative established by the APEC Climate Network working group, it was decided by the leaders to install the APEC Climate Center in Busan. Peaceful protests against APEC were staged in Busan, but the meeting schedule was not affected.
At the Leaders' Meeting held on 19 November 2006 in Hanoi, APEC leaders called for a new start to global free-trade negotiations while condemning terrorism and other threats to security. APEC also criticised North Korea for conducting a nuclear test and a missile test launch that year, urging the country to take "concrete and effective" steps toward nuclear disarmament. Concerns about nuclear proliferation in the region was discussed in addition to economic topics. The United States and Russia signed an agreement as part of Russia's bid to join the World Trade Organization.
The APEC Australia 2007 Leaders' Meeting was held in Sydney from 2–9 September 2007. The political leaders agreed to an "aspirational goal" of a 25% reduction of energy intensity correlative with economic development.[58] Extreme security measures including airborne sharpshooters and extensive steel-and-concrete barricades were deployed against anticipated protesters and potential terrorists. However, protest activities were peaceful and the security envelope was penetrated with ease by a spoof diplomatic motorcade manned by members of the Australian television program The Chaser, one of whom was dressed to resemble the Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.
The APEC Chile 2019, originally to be held 16–17 November 2019 in Chile, was cancelled due to ongoing protests by sections of its population over inequality, the cost of living and police repression.[59]
The 2023 APEC meeting was notable for a lack of consensuses of group members on their stance over the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts as well as consensus for WTO reforms. The meeting between Biden and Xi was also seen as significant in terms of reducing tensions between the US and China.[60]
At the end of the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting, the leaders gather for the official APEC Leaders' Family Photo. A tradition has the leaders dressing to reflect the culture of the host member. The tradition dates to the first such meeting in 1993 when then-U.S. President Bill Clinton insisted on informal attire and gave the leaders leather bomber jackets. At the 2010 meeting, Japan had the leaders dress in smart casual rather than the traditional kimono.[61] Similarly, when Honolulu was selected in 2009 as the site for the 2011 APEC meeting, U.S. President Barack Obama joked that he looked forward to seeing the leaders dressed in "flowered shirts and grass skirts". After viewing previous photos, and concerned that having the leaders dress in aloha shirts might give the wrong impression during a period of economic austerity, Obama instead decided it might be time to end the tradition. Leaders were given a specially designed aloha shirt as a gift but were not expected to wear it for the photo.[62] Leaders in Bali, Indonesia at the 2013 conference wore a batik outfit; in China 2014 Tang suit jackets; in the Philippines 2015 Barong Tagalogs; in Peru 2016 vicuña wool shawls; in 2017 Vietnamese silk shirts.[63]
APEC has been criticised for promoting free trade agreements that would impose restrictions on national and local laws, which regulate and ensure labour rights, environmental protection and safe and affordable access to medicine.[64] According to the organisation, it is "the premier forum for facilitating economic growth, cooperation, trade and investment in the Asia-Pacific region" established to "further enhance economic growth and prosperity for the region and to strengthen the Asia-Pacific community".[65] The effectiveness and fairness of its role has been questioned, especially from the viewpoints of European countries that cannot take part in APEC[66] and Pacific Island nations that cannot participate but stand to be affected by its decisions.
Malou (born 1984 in Copenhagen) is a Danish former softcore porn actress and she also appeared in fetish pictures.[1] She first got noticed in 2003 and in 2004 she became the front page girl for the magazine Eurotic.[2] In 2005 she moved to the United States to work as a promo girl for sex products made by the company Black Video Media. Malou today resided in Copenhagen Denmark again.[1][2]

This Danish biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Oriol (also known as Orisol or Orixol) is a mountain located in the Basque Mountains of the Spanish province of Álava. It overlooks the valley of Aramaio. The most popular trail starts at the Kurtzeta pass [eu].[2]
This article about a location in the Basque Country, Spain, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Fatal Love; Or, The Forc'd Inconstancy is a 1680 tragedy by the English writer Elkanah Settle.[1] It was first staged by the King's Company at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in London. The original cast members are unknown.[2] Producer at the time of the Popish Plot scare and the Exclusion Crisis, it was notably anti-Catholic similar to Settle's other tragedy of the same year The Female Prelate.[3]

This article on a play from the 17th century is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bystra [ˈbɨstra] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wilkowice, within Bielsko County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland.[1] The village lies approximately 3 kilometres (2 mi) north-west of Wilkowice, 8 km (5 mi) south of Bielsko-Biała, and 55 km (34 mi) south of the regional capital Katowice.
The village is located in Silesian Beskids, alongside Bystra stream. The name of the village is of topographic origin borrowed from an older name of the Bystra stream (nominative bystry: fast, rapid).
The village lies along the Bystra stream, left tributary of Biała River that historically divided the village into two parts: Bystra Krakowska (Cracovian Bystra) and Bystra Śląska (Silesian Bystra). They were therefore established in the 16th century as two separate villages.
Silesian village lying on the left northern bank of the Bystra stream was first mentioned in 1570 when it was sold together with Silesian Mikuszowice and an adjacent wood by dukes of Cieszyn to the town of Bielsko. Soon after in 1572 it became a part Bielsko state country (since 1754 Duchy of Bielsko) that was split from the Duchy of Teschen.[2] The village also politically belonged to the Habsburg monarchy.
In the second half of the 19th century the village became a spa resort, especially after opening a railway line in 1878 a nearby Wilkowice.
After the Revolutions of 1848 in the Austrian Empire a modern municipal division was introduced in the re-established Austrian Silesia. The village as a municipality was subscribed to the political and legal district of Bielsko. According to the censuses conducted in 1880, 1890, 1900 and 1910 the population of the municipality grew from 397 in 1880 to 548 in 1910 with a dwindling majority being native German-speakers (from 76.9% in 1880 to 51.7% in 1910) accompanied by a German-speaking minority (at most 14 or 1.9% in 1880), in terms of religion in 1910 majority were Roman Catholics (81.1%), followed by Protestants (14%), Jews (25 or 4.6%) and 2 people adhering to yet another faith.[3] It was then considered to be a part of a German language island around Bielsko (German: Bielitz-Bialaer Sprachinsel).[4]
Cracovian village lying on the right southern bank of the Bystra stream was also established in the 16th century. It belonged then to Żywiec latifundium and since 1618 to Łodygowice latifundium that was split from it. The village also politically belonged to the Crown of Poland.
Upon the First Partition of Poland in 1772 it became part of the Austrian Kingdom of Galicia. According to the Austrian census of 1900 the village had 947 inhabitants, all of them were Polish-speaking Roman Catholics.[5]
After World War I and the fall of Austria-Hungary, Bystra Krakowska became a part of Poland in 1918. Bystra Śląska also became a part of Poland after the Polish–Czechoslovak War and the division of Cieszyn Silesia in 1920.
The villages were annexed by Nazi Germany at the beginning of World War II. After Germany's defeat in the war, they were restored to Poland.
Toxocara malayasiensis is a species of feline roundworm, a parasite which infects the intestine of cats. Feline roundworms are passed in the fecal matter of cats, and can be transmitted to humans, causing toxocariasis, a potentially serious disease.[1]
Women in DSO is an American non-profit organization, which focuses on highlighting the contributions of women across the dental industry and promoting women leaders across the Dental Service Organizations.[1][2]

Women in DSO was created in 2019 by Dr. Aman Kaur with the intention to support the growth and empowerment of women leaders in DSOs and also to advance female leadership in dentistry.[3][4]
In 2020, Women in DSO partnered with Henry Schein, Dykema DSO, DCA (Dental Care Alliance), Aspen Dental,Patterson Dental, Heartland Dental, Align, Darby Dental, SmileDirectClub, Dentsply Sirona and Overjet to further this mission and gained their support to build the supporting programs and networks.[5][6][7][8][9][10]
Combustion Science and Technology is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on combustion. The editor-in-chief is Richard A. Yetter (Pennsylvania State University). It is published by Taylor & Francis and was established in 1969. The journal was preceded by Pyrodynamics, which was published from 1964 to 1969.[1]
The journal is abstracted and indexed in,
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2020 impact factor of 2.174.[6]
Zitha torridalis is a species of snout moth. It is found in Korea, Japan, China, India, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Java.[1]
The wingspan is 17–23 mm. Adults are on wing from July to August.

This Pyralini-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The city of Dallas and the Dallas metropolitan area are home to teams in six major sports: the Dallas Cowboys (National Football League), Dallas Mavericks (National Basketball Association), Texas Rangers (Major League Baseball), Dallas Stars (National Hockey League), FC Dallas (Major League Soccer), and Dallas Wings (Women's National Basketball Association).
Dallas area major college sports programs include Patriots baseball of Dallas Baptist University located in southwest Dallas, and the Mustangs of Southern Methodist University, located in the enclave of University Park. Neighboring cities Fort Worth, Arlington, and Denton are home to the Texas Christian University Horned Frogs, University of Texas at Arlington Mavericks, and University of North Texas Mean Green, respectively.
Nearby Arlington, Texas is home to the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League (NFL). Since joining the league as an expansion team in 1960, the Cowboys have enjoyed substantial success, advancing to eight Super Bowls and winning five.[1] Known widely as "America's Team", the Dallas Cowboys are financially the most valuable sports franchise in the United States, worth approximately 2.3 billion dollars.[2] They are also the most valuable sports organization in the world.[3] From 1960-71, the Cowboys played home games at the Cotton Bowl, in Dallas's Fair Park. From 1971-2008, the team played at Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas. In 2009, the Cowboys relocated to their new 80,000-seat AT&T Stadium in Arlington, which was the site of Super Bowl XLV.[4] The college Cotton Bowl Classic football game was played at the Cotton Bowl through its 2009 game, but has moved to AT&T Stadium.[5]
Indoor football
Nearby Frisco, Texas is home to the Frisco Fighters of the Indoor Football League. The team was founded in 2021, and plays its home games at the Comerica Center in Frisco. The season is played from May to August. The league was formed in 2008 with 19 teams competing currently they have 12 teams playing with 5 more teams joining in 2022.
Lower-level leagues
The Dallas Renegades were members of the XFL and played their home games at Globe Life Park in Arlington, now known as Choctaw Stadium.[6] until the XFL’s shutdown in the middle of the 2020 season. The XFL relaunched in 2023, with the Renegades returning to play in Choctaw Stadium under the new name of Arlington Renegades.[7]
Downtown Dallas is home to the Dallas Mavericks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Their original arena was the now demolished Reunion Arena, but now they play at the American Airlines Center. The Mavericks have won one championship, winning the 2011 NBA Finals, led by German-born superstar Dirk Nowitzki.[8] The Mavericks have one of the largest fanbases in the NBA, consistently ranking in the top 5 over the last few years[when?] in attendance. The Mavericks had a streak of 12 consecutive playoff appearances from 2001-2012 and 15 appearances in 16 years from 2001-2016, only missing the playoffs in 2013 when they finished with an even 41–41 record and out of the playoffs as the 10th seed.
NBA G League
The Mavericks' minor league affiliate, the Texas Legends, play in Frisco, Texas, and compete in the NBA G League. The franchise began as the Colorado 49ers in 2006, and moved to Frisco in 2009. The Legends play their home games at the Comerica Center in Frisco.
The Dallas Wings of the WNBA play home games at the College Park Center on the campus of University of Texas at Arlington. The franchise relocated to the North Texas market in 2015 from Tulsa, Oklahoma, where they were known as the Tulsa Shock. 
The Texas Rangers of Major League Baseball (MLB) also play home games in Arlington at the new Globe Life Field, and are the 2010 , 2011 and 2023 American League Champions.[9] The franchise was established in 1961 as the Washington Senators, and moved to Arlington after the 1971 season, becoming the Rangers in 1972.[10] From 1972-1993, the team played home games at Arlington Stadium. From 1994-2019, the Rangers played home games at a stadium originally known as The Ballpark in Arlington; the stadium is currently known as Choctaw Stadium. Beginning in 2020, the team played its home games at Globe Life Field in Arlington. The Rangers most successful season was 2023 as they won their first World Series in franchise history.
Minor League Baseball
The Rangers' Minor League Baseball (AA-Affiliate) Frisco RoughRiders play in Frisco, Texas. The team was founded in 2003, and plays its home games at Riders Field (formerly known as Dr. Pepper Ballpark).
The Major League Soccer team FC Dallas, formerly the Dallas Burn, currently play at Toyota Stadium in Frisco. The team originally played at the Cotton Bowl in Dallas, spent one year playing at a high school stadium in Southlake, Texas (Dragon Stadium), and began playing in Frisco in 2005. FC Dallas also has an affiliate team in the developmental MLS Next Pro league, called North Texas SC. NTSC plays most home games at Choctaw Stadium in Arlington.
Indoor soccer
Dallas has been home to two different franchises known as the Dallas Sidekicks. From 1984-2004, the original Dallas Sidekicks played in the Major Indoor Soccer League, hosting home games at Reunion Arena. After the league fell apart, and after an eight year hiatus, in 2012 another version of the Dallas Sidekicks was formed. This current version of the Sidekicks plays in the Major Arena Soccer League, hosting home games at the Credit Union of Texas Event Center in Allen, Texas.
AT&T Stadium will host several matches during the 2026 FIFA World Cup.
The Dallas Stars of the National Hockey League (NHL) have played in Dallas since 1993. The franchise originated in 1967 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, as the Minnesota North Stars, and moved to Dallas after the 1992-93 season. The team plays its home games at the American Airlines Center, after playing originally at Reunion Arena. The Stars won the Stanley Cup in 1999, plus the Western Conference championship three times, two Presidents' Trophies as the top regular season team in the NHL, and eight division titles. [11] The team helped popularize hockey in the region, with Valley Ranch in Irving going from just one sheet of ice when the Stars arrived in 1993 to almost 30 in 2010.[12]
Lower levels of hockey
The Allen Americans, founded for the 2009–10 season, play in the Central Division of the ECHL. Their home arena is the Credit Union of Texas Event Center located in Allen, Texas, approximately 30 minutes northeast of Dallas. The junior hockey Lone Star Brahmas (formerly the five-time defending champions Texas Tornado) of the North American Hockey League play at the NYTEX Sports Centre in North Richland Hills.
Fort Worth, Texas is home to Panther City Lacrosse, a box lacrosse team in the National Lacrosse League. The team began in the 2021-22 season, and plays its home games at Dickies Arena.
The Dallas Jackals of Major League Rugby are the first professional rugby team in DFW. The team was announced on June 5, 2020, and began play in February 2022. The team plays home games at Choctaw Stadium in Arlington.
Rugby union is a developing sport in Dallas as well as the whole of Texas.[13] The multiple clubs, ranging from men's and women's clubs to collegiate and high school, are part of the Texas Rugby Football Union.[14] Currently Dallas is one of only 16 cities in the United States included in the Rugby Super League[15] represented by Dallas Harlequins.[16]
Major league sports teams currently playing in the Dallas–Fort Worth area:
Minor league sports teams currently playing in the Dallas–Fort Worth area:
The Dallas Derby Devils were founded in November 2004 and are the original North Texas roller derby league with a current roster of over one hundred active skaters. Dallas Derby Devils is one of the largest flat track derby leagues in the southern United States. The Dallas Derby Devils are an original member of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association (WFTDA).[18] Game have been held at NYTEX Sports Centre in North Richland Hills since 2008.[19] In 2019, the Dallas Derby Devils integrated the Rolling Rebellion, a Junior Roller Derby Association (JRDA) team, into their ranks expanding the program to include all youth ages 7-17 years of age.[20] The league currently holds a full home season schedule in addition to their annual Clover Cup Tournament.[21]
In 2021, USA Cricket announced it would be moving its headquarters to Grand Prairie at the stadium formerly known as AirHogs Stadium. Cricket is popular among diaspora from South Asian countries. Local universities such as SMU, University of Texas at Arlington and University of Texas at Dallas have their own cricket clubs that are affiliated with USA Cricket.[citation needed]
The Dallas Empire competes in the Call of Duty League, also known as, CDL. The Empire are one of the 12 inaugural teams in the Call of Duty League. During the first season of the CDL, the Dallas Empire defeated Atlanta FaZe 5-1 to capture the CDL's first-ever league championship. Call of Duty Esports legend, Crimsix took the Call of Duty Championship Finals MVP. Dallas Empire is owned by Team Envy.
About halfway between Dallas and Fort Worth, horse-racing takes place at Lone Star Park in Grand Prairie.[citation needed]
The Dallas Legion, formerly the Dallas Roughnecks, compete in the American Ultimate Disc League (AUDL). The Legion's home field is the John Paul II High School Stadium in Plano, Texas. The team played its first season in 2016, finishing 17–0 and was crowned the AUDL Champions in its inaugural season. The Roughnecks are the only team to compete in Championship Weekend (Final 4) each of the last 4 seasons (and the only team to finish in the top 4 every season in its history). 
The Dallas Fuel competes in the Overwatch League. The Fuel were one of the league's 12 founding teams. During the inaugural season the fuel finished 10th overall with a record of 12 wins and 28 losses.[22] The Fuel won their first OWL championship in the 2022 season after defeating the San Francisco Shock in the 2022 Grand Finals.
The Dallas Diamonds, the two-time national champions of the Women's Professional Football League, play in North Richland Hills.[23][24] McKinney is home to the Dallas Revolution, an Independent Women's Football League team.[25] The Dallas Bluestorm was a charter of the United National Gridiron League, a proposed minor football league that had planned to begin play in 2010.[citation needed]
As reported by Olympic news outlet Around the Rings, Dallas was looking at a 2020 Summer Olympics bid. Those in favor of Dallas said that it should be chosen because no major stadiums would have to be built for the games.[26]
National Football League
In 1952, an NFL franchise called the Dallas Texans (NFL) played for one season. The team went 1-11 and folded after one season.
In 1960, Dallas millionaire Lamar Hunt founded the American Football League, and located his team in Dallas, naming them the Dallas Texans. The Dallas Texans won one AFL Championship in 1962. And after playing three seasons in Dallas, the team relocated in 1963 to become the Kansas City Chiefs.
Arena football
Dallas has hosted three arena football franchises in its past, all a part of the now-defunct Arena Football League. From 1990-1993, the Dallas Texans (Arena) competed in the league, calling Reunion Arena their home. From 2002-2008, the AFL team was the Dallas Desperados, playing home games at the American Airlines Center. In 2010-2011, the Dallas Vigilantes played in the American Airlines Center as a part of the restructured Arena Football League.[citation needed]
The Fort Worth Cats were a historic minor-league baseball team that played from 1888-1964. Through its history, the team was affiliated with a variety of Major League franchises.
The Texas AirHogs were an independent professional baseball team located in Grand Prairie, Texas from 2008-2020.
The Dallas Tornado were a professional soccer team in the North American Soccer League from 1968 to 1981. The team and the league were founded by Dallas sports legend Lamar Hunt. The Tornado won the 1971 NASL championship.
The Dallas Rattlers of Major League Lacrosse became the first professional lacrosse team to call the state of Texas home in November 2017 when the league announced its franchise from Rochester, New York would be relocating to Frisco and The Ford Center at The Star.[27] The Rattlers were one of the six founding members of Major League Lacrosse. The league merged with the Premier Lacrosse League in 2020, and the Rattlers ceased to exist.
Sports teams that formerly played in the Dallas-Fort Worth area:
Dallas has no major Division I college sports program within its political boundaries, although it has one program within its city limits—the Mustangs of Southern Methodist University are located in the enclave of University Park. The only Division I team that plays within the political boundaries of Dallas is the baseball program of Dallas Baptist University (Patriots), which plays in Division I despite otherwise being a Division II member. Neighboring cities Fort Worth, Arlington, and Denton are home to the Texas Christian University Horned Frogs, University of Texas at Arlington Mavericks, and University of North Texas Mean Green respectively.
Toyota Stadium in Frisco has hosted the NCAA Division I Football Championship, the title game of the second-tier Division I FCS, since the 2010 season, and will continue to host this event through at least the 2024 season.
The city of Dallas maintains and operates 406 parks on 21,000 acres (85 km2) of parkland.[citation needed] Its flagship park is the 260-acre (1.05 km2) Fair Park, which hosted the Texas Centennial Exposition in 1936.[citation needed] The city is also home to Texas' first and largest zoo, the 95 acres (0.38 km2) Dallas Zoo, which opened at its current location in 1888.[28]
The city's parks contain 17 separate lakes, including White Rock and Bachman lakes, spanning a total of 4,400 acres (17.81 km2). In addition, Dallas is traversed by 61.6 miles (99.1 km) of biking and jogging trails, including the Katy Trail, and is home to 47 community and neighborhood recreation centers, 276 sports fields, 60 swimming pools, 232 playgrounds, 173 basketball courts, 112 volleyball courts, 126 play slabs, 258 neighborhood tennis courts, 258 picnic areas, six 18-hole golf courses, two driving ranges, and 477 athletic fields.[29]
As part of the ongoing Trinity River Project, the Great Trinity Forest, at 6,000 acres (24 km2), is the largest urban hardwood forest in the United States and is part of the largest urban park in the United States.[30] The Trinity River Audubon Center is a new addition to the park. Opened in 2008, it serves as a gateway to many trails and other nature viewing activities in the area. The Trinity River Audubon Center is the first LEED-certified building constructed by the City of Dallas Parks and Recreation Department.[citation needed]
Dallas also hosts three of the twenty-one preserves of the extensive (3,200 acres (13 km2)) Dallas County Preserve System. Both the Joppa Preserve, the McCommas Bluff Preserve the Cedar Ridge Preserve are all within the Dallas city limits. The Cedar Ridge Preserve was formerly known as the Dallas Nature Center, but management was turned over to Audubon Dallas group, which now manages the 633-acre (2.56 km2) natural habitat park on behalf of the city of Dallas and Dallas County. The preserve sits at an elevation of 755 feet (230 m) above sea level, and contains a variety of outdoor activities, including 10 miles (16 km) of hiking trails and picnic areas.[citation needed]
Just southwest of Dallas is Cedar Hill State Park, maintained by the Texas Parks and Wildlife state agency. A 1,826-acre (7.39 km2) urban nature preserve, the park is located on the 7,500-acre (30 km2) Joe Pool Reservoir, and offers activities such as mountain biking, birding, camping and fishing; swimming is allowed at the swimming beach only.[31]
To the west of Dallas in Arlington is Six Flags Over Texas, the original franchise in the Six Flags theme park chain. Hurricane Harbor, a large water park owned by Six Flags, is also in Arlington.[32]
Małachów [maˈwaxuf] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Szczekociny within Zawiercie County, Silesian Voivodeship in southern Poland.[1] It lies approximately 6 kilometres (4 mi) west of Szczekociny, 30 km (19 mi) north-east of Zawiercie, and 71 km (44 mi) north-east of the regional capital Katowice.

This Zawiercie County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
North Fork Tangascootack Creek is a tributary of Tangascootack Creek in Clinton County, Pennsylvania, in the United States. It is 7.1 miles (11.4 km) long and flows through Beech Creek Township.[1] The creek's watershed has an area of 19.2 square miles (50 km2). Its major tributaries include Mill Branch and Boiler Run. North Fork Tangascootack Creek does not experience much acid mine drainage and its trout and macroinvertebrate populations are sizeable. The creek is near the Slaughtering Ground Barrens.
North Fork Tangascootack Creek begins in a valley in eastern Beech Creek Township. The creek flows east-northeast, receiving the tributaries Left Branch Puncheon Run and Cowlick Run from the left. The creek then enters Bald Eagle Township, where its valley gets deeper. In western Bald Eagle Township, it receives the tributary Mill Branch from the left. As the creek continues in the same direction, it passes by several strip mines. Further on, the creek turns sharply north and then sharply east, eventually receiving the tributary Boiler Run, again from the left. After picking up Buckhorn Hollow, its final tributary, from the left, it turns south. A short distance later, it enters Tangascootack Creek.[2]
North Fork Tangascootack Creek joins Tangascootack Creek 2.48 miles (3.99 km) upstream of its mouth.[3]
Mill Branch has a watershed area of 5.84 square miles (15.1 km2) and joins the creek 4.66 miles (7.50 km) upstream of its mouth.  Boiler Run has a watershed area of 3.63 square miles (9.4 km2) and joins the main stem 2.0 miles (3.2 km) upstream of its mouth.[3] All of the named tributaries of North Fork Tangascootack Creek enter it from the left.[1][2]
North Fork Tangascootack Creek is not significantly affected by acid mine drainage.[4]
The watershed of North Fork Tangascootack Creek has an area of 19.2 square miles (50 km2).[3] The creek is shown on the Farrandsville topographical map of the United States Geological Survey.[5]
Outcroppings of sandstone of the Pocono Formation occur in the valley of North Fork Tangascootack Creek. However, the red shale of the Mauch Chunk Formation is not visible in the creek's valley. The hills north of the creek contain no coal but are topped by a conglomerate.[6] The Mercer coal crop line is in the watershed of North Fork Tangascootack Creek.[7] An area of sandy soils is located in the Slaughtering Ground Barrens, immediately north of the creek.[8]
The elevation of North Fork Tangascootack Creek near its mouth is 666 feet (203 m) above sea level.[5] A plateau is located north of the creek.[8]
Historically, the Rock Cabin Railroad ran from the community of Farrandsville up the Tangascootack Creek valley. This railroad had a junction with the Eagleton Railroad at North Fork Tangascootack Creek.[6]
In 1988, a 527-acre tract of land around North Fork Tangascootack Creek was designated as a protected area.[9]
There are a large number of gas well drilling sites just north of North Fork Tangascootack Creek.[8]
Tangascootac is a Native American word for "a foe" and also refers to a Nanticoke chief.[10]
The trout and macroinvertebrate populations of North Fork Tangascootack Creek have been described as "thriving".[4] Trout reproduce in the creek from its headwaters to its mouth.[11]
The Slaughtering Ground Barrens is situated on a plateau immediately north of North Fork Tangascootack Creek.[8] Plantlife in this area consists of scrub oak, pitch pine, and a number of ericaceous shrubs. The area frequently catches fire, and "fire likely played an important role in shaping" the Slaughtering Ground Barrens Biodiversity Area.[8]
Watier's Club was a gentlemen's Club established in 1807 and disbanded in 1819. It was located at 81 Piccadilly on the corner of Bolton Street in west London.
Prior to its occupation as a gaming hall and restaurant, it was a private residence, and the headquarters of a small singing club. The Prince of Wales suggested the creation of a club using his new chef, Jean-Baptiste Watier, whom the club was named after. Amongst the members in the early days were Henry Mildmay, Baron Alvanley, Beau Brummell and Henry Pierrepont.
At the opposite corner of Bolton Street stood, from 1807 to 1819, Watier's Gambling Club. Concerning the origin of this club—or rather, gaming house, for it was nothing more—the following anecdote is told by Captain Gronow:—"Upon one occasion, some gentlemen of both 'White's' and 'Brooks's' had the honour to dine with the Prince Regent, and during the conversation the Prince inquired what sort of dinners they got at their clubs; upon which Sir Thomas Stepney, one of the guests, observed that their dinners were always the same, the eternal joints or beef-steaks, the boiled fowl with oyster sauce, and an apple tart. 'That is what we have at our clubs, and very monotonous fare it is.' The Prince, without further remark, rang the bell for his cook, Watier, and in the presence of those who dined at the royal table, asked him whether he would take a house and organise a dinner-club. Watier assented, and named the Prince's page, Madison, as manager, and Labourie, from the royal kitchen, as cook. The club flourished only a few years, owing to the night-play that was carried on there. The favourite game played there was 'Macao.'" The Duke of York patronised it, and was a member. Tom Moore also tells us that he belonged to it. The dinners were exquisite; the best Parisian cooks could not beat Labourie.
Mr. John Timbs, in his account of this club, remarks, with sly humour, "In the old days, when gaming was in fashion, at Watier's Club both princes and nobles lost or gained fortunes between themselves;' and by all accounts "Macao" seems to have been a far more effective instrument in the losing of fortunes than either "Whist" or "Loo."

Mr. Raikes, in his "Journal," says that Watier's Club, which had originally been established for harmonic meetings, became, in the time of "Beau" Brummell, the resort of nearly all the fine gentlemen of the day. "The dinners," he adds, "were superlative, and high play at 'Macao' was generally introduced. It was this game, or rather losses which arose out of it, that first led the 'Beau' into difficulties." Mr. Raikes further remarks, with reference to this club, that its pace was "too quick to last," and that its records show that none of its members at his death had reached the average age of man. The club was closed in 1819, when the house was taken by a set of "black-legs" who instituted a common bank for gambling. This caused the ruin of several fortunes, and it was suppressed in its turn, or died a natural death.It was at the behest of the Prince Regent, (later King George IV), that Brummell was named the club's president. As one biographer put it,
but at that time, anything emanating, as this did, from the Carlton House was regarded as being due to his [Brummell's] influence. There is no doubt that 'the beau' reigned supreme there, 'laying down the law in dress, in manners, and in those magnificent snuff boxes, for which, there was a rage; he fomented the excesses, ridiculed the scruples, patronised the novices, and exercised paramount dominion over all' according to Raikes, one of the members. The same authority tells us some anecdotes bearing on this: how, for instance, Tom Sheridan once came into the club, and although not a habitual gambler, laid £10 at macao. Brummell happened to drop in from the opera at that moment and proposed that he take Sheridan's place, promising to go half-shares with him in any winnings he might receive. This being agreed to as Brummell's luck at this particular game was notoriously phenomenal, the beau added £200 to his friend's modest stakes, and in ten minutes had won £1,500. Here, he stopped, and handing £750 to Sheridan remarked, 'There, Tom, now go home and give your wife and brats a supper and never play again.' Another story concerns Brummell at this club. One night, his usual luck deserted him and he lost a large sum, whereupon he affected, in his farcical way, (it is Raikes who relates the story) a very tragic air, and called to the waiter: 'bring me a flat candlestick and a pistol', upon which Bligh, an eccentric member, whose ways were the talk of the place, calmly produced two loaded pistols and exclaimed, 'Mr. Brummell, if you are really anxious to put a period to your existence, I am extremely happy to offer you the means without troubling the waiter.' As the narrator adds, 'the effect upon those present may be easily imagined, at finding themselves in the company of a known madman, who had loaded weapons upon him.'The game "Macao", referenced above, was a precursor of the French card game, baccarat.[1] The club carried the affectionate nickname, "The Dandies Club," which was bestowed by Lord Byron who remarked, "I like the dandies, they were always very civil to me."
The club had a short life, eventually closing in 1819. It had become the haven for 'blackguards' and fortunes were being lost to a 'common bank' that had been set up by a group of members and guaranteed ruin for others.
51°30′23.52″N 0°8′36.52″W﻿ / ﻿51.5065333°N 0.1434778°W﻿ / 51.5065333; -0.1434778
The Indie Game Jam (IGJ) was an effort to rapidly prototype video game designs and inject new ideas into the game industry. Started in 2002 by a group of game designer-programmers, the event featured a shared game engine technology and worked on by other designer-programmers for a single long weekend. The games resulting from that weekend were then published, open-source, on the IGJ web page.
IGJ was an event for indie game developers that allowed them to develop and present ideas without publisher restrictions.[1] Hosted in Oakland, California just before the Game Developers Conference, the IGJ ran on sponsorship and donations.
IGJ was known for innovation and rapid prototyping of new gameplay ideas. After the third IGJ, Doug Church commented, "[..] it's kinda true that nothing works, but you just throw everyone into the middle of the fire and things come out."[2] He commented that small experiments can lead to big developments in the field.[3] He also noted that while IGJ may not itself revolutionize the mainstream video game industry, it may inspire individuals to innovate.[4] Justin Hall explained that the "roots of electronic entertainment life [lie in such] collaborations".[5]
Numerous well known indie developers and other game industry figures have participated, including Jonathan Blow, Doug Church, Chaim Gingold, Justin Hall, Chris Hecker, Austin Grossman, Marc LeBlanc, Randy Smith, and Robin Hunicke.
The IGJ was considered an inspiration for later game jams including the Nordic Game Jam and the Global Game Jam.
Each year, Indie Game Jam posed different questions about innovation of new settings, genres, and controls.[6]
Odhran (fl. 430) was the charioteer of Saint Patrick and the first Christian martyr in Irish history.
There are two different versions given about Odran's martyrdom. The first, in the Vita tripartita Sancti Patricii, states that on the borders of the future counties of Kildare and Offaly, the chieftain of that district, Failge Berraide, worshiped the pagan god Crom Cruach and vowed to avenge the god's destruction at Magh Slécht by killing Patrick. Odran overheard the plot, and as he and Patrick set out in the chariot to continue their journey, requested that he be allowed to hold the place of honour instead of Patrick, who granted his wish; scarcely had they set out when a lance pierced Odran's heart, who by changing places saved Patrick's life.
The second version, contained in the pseudo-historical prologue (PHP) to the Senchas Már, the High-King Lóegaire mac Néill (died 462) suggests dispatching an assassin to kill someone from Patrick's household in order to test his preaching of forgiveness.[1][a] The assassin is identified as King Lóegaire's brother Nuada (or nephew [?][3])[b] in the second paragraph quoted below, it being a paraphrase of the beginning sections of the PHP.[c][6][7][d]
The cause of the Senchus [Mor] having been composed was this:—Patrick came to Erin to baptize and to disseminate religion among the Gaedhil, i.e. in the ninth year of Theodosius and in the fourth year of Laeghaire, King of Erin, son of Niall.[e]
But the cause of the Poem[f] having been composed was as follows:[g]—Laeghaire ordered his people to kill a man of Patrick's people; and Laeghaire agreed to give his own award to the person who should kill the man, that he might discover whether he (Patrick) would grant forgiveness for it. And Nuada Derg, the son of Niall, the brother of Laeghaire,[h] who was in captivity in the hands of Laeghaire, heard this, and he said that if he were released and got other rewards, he would kill one of Patrick's people. And the command of Laeghaire's cavalry was given him, and he was released from captivity, and he gave guarantee that he would fulfil his promise; and he took his lance and went towards the clerics, and hurled the lance at them and slew Odran, Patrick's charioteer.[7]
Patrick then asked the Chief Ollam of Ireland, Dubhthach moccu Lughair to try the case, and this places the poet in a quandary because if he didn't impose an eric-fine this would seem an affront to Patrick, while if he did impose an eric, it would be an affront to God. However, Patrick assured him he would be inspired by God to speak what is right, and Dubhthach, after reciting the Senchus Mor as poetry,[10][11] encompassing the Brehon law of Ireland, also referred to here as Patrick's law.[12] pronounced judgment on the killer Nuada, who was condemned to death, though his soul went to Heaven.[13]
This was the earliest judgement on the conflicting values of Christian and pagan laws in Ireland.
Saint Odhran is regarded as the first native Irish martyr to be martyred in Ireland.
Due to the similarity of the name some people have identified Odhran with Odhran of Iona. There is a link in the tradition that both men voluntarily sacrificed themselves in assisting the work of a greater saint, however it is generally accepted that they were two distinct persons.
The Europe/Africa Zone was one of the three regional zones of the 2019 Davis Cup.
In the Europe/Africa Zone there are three different tiers, called groups. The winners of the Group I ties in September will earn a place in the 2020 Davis Cup Qualifiers, while the remaining nations in Groups I and II will be allocated a place within their region depending on their position in the Nations Ranking.[1]
Seeds: 
Remaining nations:
Olajumoke Amoke Olatunde Georgelistenⓘ commonly known as Jumoke George is a Nigerian actress, film producer, and filmmaker.[1]
She has acted in both Yoruba and English language films in Nollywood and has hosted television programs in Nigeria.
George was born on 18 February[when?]. She hails from Ibadan, Oyo state. Her father was in the Nigerian military while her stepmother was a nurse who also works for the military.[2]
George's mother and father separated while she was very young, with George remaining with her father and stepmother. After having disputes with her stepmother, her father threw George out of the house while she was in secondary school. So George then sheltered with friends.[3]
George attended Command Children School Ann's Barracks Yaba, Lagos; the Army Children School Kano; the Anglican Grammar School, Orita mefa, Ibadan. George went to Government Technical College, Osogbo where she studied Business Administration.
George was introduced to acting at age eight by a family friend. She did stage drama with National Television Authority (NTA), Ibadan. She enrolled in a drama troupe at NTA Ibadan. Under the sponsorship of Victor Ashaolu, George entered the Yoruba movie industry.
After an inability to progress in the film industry, George became a member of the Freelance and Independent Broadcasters Association of Nigeria (FIBAN). George anchored 5 live programs which kept her very busy as away from acting.[4]
City People Movie Matriarch Recognition Award 2018[7]
Phillipa Margaret "Pip" Brown[1] (born 13 July 1979), better known by her stage name Ladyhawke, is a New Zealand singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist. She took her stage name from Richard Donner's 1985 film Ladyhawke.
Brown was part of the Wellington-based band Two Lane Blacktop (2001–2003), before moving to Australia where, in 2004, she formed the art rock band Teenager with Nick Littlemore of Pnau. In 2007 she moved to London, afterwards relocating to Los Angeles around 2013,[2] and then subsequently relocating back to her native New Zealand after the release of her third album, Wild Things.[3]
Brown's debut solo album, Ladyhawke, was released on 22 September 2008 through Modular Recordings, and topped the RIANZ Albums Chart. It spawned five singles of which "My Delirium" was the most successful. At the ARIA Music Awards of 2009, Ladyhawke won Breakthrough Artist in both album and single categories.
Brown's second solo album, Anxiety, was released in May 2012, and her third solo album, Wild Things, was released on 3 June 2016. Her fourth album, Time Flies, was released on 19 November 2021.
Phillipa Margaret Brown was born on 13 July 1979[4][5] in Masterton, a town in the Wairarapa region of New Zealand.[6][7][8] She came from a musical family, with her mother being a singer/guitarist and her stepfather a jazz drummer. During her childhood, various illnesses and allergies kept her in and out of the hospital. At age ten she contracted erysipeloid, a disease that is common in seagulls and sharks but had not been seen in humans in New Zealand for twenty years. Her allergies to antibiotics and antihistamines greatly complicated treatment efforts and almost put her into a coma, and she came close to dying.[9]
Brown was also diagnosed with Autism as a child, specifically the since-retired diagnosis Asperger syndrome.[10] She believes that the large amount of her childhood she spent absorbed in music, be it listening to the radio or to her mother's Beatles and Pretenders albums, was attributable to this syndrome.[9]
While attending Chanel College,[11] she played in several grunge bands. After high school, Brown moved from Masterton to Wellington.[6]
In 2001 in Wellington, Brown formed the band Two Lane Blacktop with some friends, playing lead guitar. She described the group as being "like Iggy and The Stooges meets The Clash".[12][13] She cites her experience playing the notorious New York City club CBGB with Two Lane Blacktop as being a defining moment.[13] In 2003 Two Lane Blacktop disbanded when their lead singer, Matt Harrop, and drummer, Phil Smiley, both quit the band two days prior to a scheduled tour of Australia with Modey Lemon, after which they were due to play at SXSW in Austin, Texas.[13] Brown then made the impulsive decision to take her flight to Australia anyway, and she relocated to Melbourne.[13]
Some time after Brown's move to Melbourne, Sydney-based musician Nick Littlemore of Pnau (he later formed Empire of the Sun) heard of her relocation and asked her if she was interested in joining an art rock band he had started called Teenager. Brown liked Littlemore's music and, in 2004, decided to join. Brown and Littlemore played together for two years, with Brown relocating to Sydney to be closer to the band, as well as other people she enjoyed playing and writing music with.
Teenager issued their debut album, Thirteen, as well as the related singles "Pony" and "Bound and Gagged", in 2006. Mess + Noise's Craig Mathieson described the album as "a pop record, albeit a particularly exotic species that equally suggests creative guile and hints of self-indulgence ... 'Pony' is the closest the album comes to cheap genre holidaying, approximating rock attitude when the organic and desperate growth of 'Bound And Gagged' is so much more impressive".[14] Brown and Littlemore co-wrote "Alone Again" and "West" for Teenager.[15] Soon after the album's appearance Brown left to concentrate on her career as Ladyhawke, she later credited Littlemore:[16]
I was quite happy playing guitar [in Teenager], contributing my ideas and stepping back [...] [Littlemore] heard me singing a song, and rushed in and said, "What's that?" I was like, "It's just like, you know..." [...] I had a Myspace page, calling myself Ladyhawke with a couple of rough demos up there. Nick was like, "That's cool, you should really follow that up. You just need to get in a studio and record it". So we jumped in the car, and he drove me out to his parents' house, and we recorded that song ... that was the start for me, where he helped me get the confidence.Still close with Littlemore, Brown decided to leave Teenager to focus on a personal project she had been developing for some time, a persona she had dubbed Ladyhawke.[17] She named herself so after a character played by Michelle Pfeiffer in the 1985 film of the same name because she sees herself as "a sort of pop superwoman creating radio-friendly songs with a single bound".[9] Brown says she started Ladyhawke out of a desire to do her own project where she could completely express herself in any way she wanted. She says: "I wanted to make music that could put a smile on people's faces and give them a feeling of nostalgia even though they may be hearing my songs for the first time. I love how music evokes memories of a certain time, I wanted to see if I could find a method of songwriting that would evoke those feelings from me on writing the song and then on the individual when listening to it for the first time."[13]
Ladyhawke's debut album, Ladyhawke, was released on 22 September 2008 by Modular Recordings. The album topped the albums chart in New Zealand one year after its release, in October 2009,[18] and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand for sales in excess of 15,000 copies.[19] In both Australia and the United Kingdom, it reached number sixteen,[20][21] and was certified gold.[22][23] Its biggest hit single was "My Delirium", which charted inside the top ten in both New Zealand and Australia.[18][20]
Ladyhawke appeared for the first time in a Triple J Hottest 100 with two entries in the 2008 countdown; "My Delirium" at number eleven and "Paris Is Burning" at number twenty-six. Pnau's song "Embrace", which features Ladyhawke, was voted in at number twelve. Brown was nominated for an NME Award for Best Solo Artist.[24]
A limited 7-inch version of "Back of the Van"—each one hand painted by Sarah Larnach—was sold on eBay. All proceeds were given to the Parkinsons Society of New Zealand.[25]
In August 2009 it was announced that she would co-headline a North American tour with Ida Maria, starting 10 September in Atlanta and concluding 3 October in Los Angeles.[26] The tour was sponsored by celebrity blogger Perez Hilton.[26]
In April 2011, Ladyhawke stated that she was preparing to release new material in the following months.[27] Her second album was initially scheduled for an October 2011 release,[28] but in September, a spokesperson stated that it was not due to be released until 2012.[29] It was later announced that the album was due for release in March 2012,[30][31] and that it would be titled Anxiety.[32] Anxiety's release date was later pushed back to May 2012.[33]
In an interview with Digital Spy, Ladyhawke said "I've made an album I'm really proud of, so I just can't wait to start playing with the band again, and touring and having some fun. I can't wait to get back into it."[34]
"Black White & Blue" was released as Anxiety's lead single on 24 January 2012, the song was featured in the soundtracks of the video games Forza Horizon, FIFA 13, and Sleeping Dogs. The single "Sunday Drive" followed in April, and the album itself was released in late May. In July 2012, a third single, "Blue Eyes", was released.
In February 2014, her song "Blue Eyes" was used in a series of Verizon commercials in the United States.[35]
On 28 March 2013 Ladyhawke announced she would return to the studio to record her third solo album.[36] By the middle of 2015, the album was finished.[37] In the first half of 2016, it was announced that the record was titled  Wild Things. In anticipation, two songs, "A Love Song" and "Sweet Fascination", were made available.[38] The album was released on 3 June 2016. Her song "Let It Roll" was used in an advertisement for Australian telecommunications company Optus. "The River" and "A Love Song" are featured in the soundtrack of the 2016 racing video game Forza Horizon 3.
On 24 September 2020, Ladyhawke announced that she was in the studio mixing a new record that would be available soon.[39] In March 2021, she revealed that she had signed a new label and publishing deal with BMG.[40] The first single from the album, "Guilty Love", which is a collaboration with Broods vocalist Georgia Nott, was released on 5 March 2021.[40][41] On 27 May 2021, the album title Time Flies was revealed, and the video for the second single, "Mixed Emotions," debuted. The album was set for release on 8 October 2021,[42] but the release date was moved to 19 November 2021.[43] Ladyhawke stated how she was "....lucky and privileged to be alive and in a room making music" after being diagnosed with Clark's level-four melanoma soon after the birth of her daughter. “There were a couple of weeks where they couldn't tell me if I was going to live....that it had not spread was something of a miracle. The level of it was so bad that it sort of should have gone everywhere."[3] Ladyhawke was cleared by her specialist after undergoing treatment and recovered. She started the recording process for Time Flies during the COVID-19 pandemic, with sessions taking place during video calls with producers Tommy English and Josh Fountain.[3] Ladyhawke mentioned future plans with PNAU in 2023 while touring Australia. [44][45]
Ladyhawke collaborated with Pnau on "Embrace" from the duo's 2007 self-titled album.[46]
The Charlatans' Tim Burgess said in September 2010 that he is collaborating with Ladyhawke and members of The Horrors and Klaxons on his second solo album. "I've been working with Josh [Hayward], the guitarist from The Horrors and Stefan [Halperin], the drummer from the Klaxons and right now we can only do stuff when our other bands aren't doing things. But when we do get together, it's really explosive and it'll be well worth waiting for. I've also got Ladyhawke singing on it."[47][48] In December 2011, Burgess revealed that he had collaborated with Ladyhawke on a song entitled "Just One Kiss",[49] which was eventually released on his 2018 album As I Was Now.
In 2011, Ladyhawke collaborated with New Zealand singer Nik Brinkman, better known as Junica, on the single "Living in My House".[50] Also in 2011, she remixed the song "Sister Wife" by American singer Alex Winston.[51]
In 2014, Ladyhawke appeared on the Tiësto album A Town Called Paradise with a track called "Last Train"; Firebeatz also appeared on the track.
In 2019, Ladyhawke was featured on the single "Never Dance Alone", from Australian alternative dance group Crooked Colours' album Langata.[52]
In December 2020, Ladyhawke released "River", her second collaboration with Pnau.[53] Pnau vocalist Nick Littlemore spoke of their experience working together again, stating "It seems every time we’ve collaborated with her it’s been incendiary. We met a long while ago; within moments of meeting it was clear we had a deep connection."[53]
In 2021, Ladyhawke collaborated with Broods on the song 'Guilty Love", which appears on Ladyhawke's fourth album, Time Flies.[54]
Ladyhawke is noted as being influenced by 1980s music.[55][56][57] She has been linked to a wave of 1980s-influenced, individualistic, androgynous female musicians in their twenties who emerged in the late 2000s.[58]
Brown also draws inspiration from music of the '90s, including Nirvana. "Listening to Nirvana takes me back to being fourteen at the school disco. Bands from the nineties have that effect on me."[59]
Peaches, to whom Ladyhawke's music has been compared, remixed the single "Paris Is Burning",[56] and the two have performed together, with Peaches taking DJ duties.[60] Ladyhawke's music has also been likened to that of Cyndi Lauper,[55] Pat Benatar, Kim Wilde, Annie and New Young Pony Club.[56]
Brown has stated that her five favourite albums of all time are Hunky Dory (1971) by David Bowie, Time (1981) by ELO and three Fleetwood Mac albums: Fleetwood Mac (it is unclear whether she was referring to the 1968 album or the 1975 album), Rumours (1977), and Tango in the Night (1987).[61]
She has also described video game music as an influence, particularly retro Japanese chiptune music from the 8-bit and 16-bit eras.[62]
Ladyhawke appeared as herself in the third episode of the British ITV2 sitcom FM, originally aired 11 March 2009.[63] Also in 2009, she designed Music Inspired Art labels for limited edition bottles of Beck's. Labels were illustrated by Sydney-based artist Sarah Larnach, who lived with Ladyhawke back when she was first getting started on her music career.[64][65]
In 2016, Ladyhawke was featured as part of the group going on a road trip in Air New Zealand's safety video, Summer of Safety.[66]
In 2021, Ladyhawke released a limited-edition video game cartridge keychain in conjunction with the release of her fourth album, Time Flies. The game takes Ladyhawke on a journey to complete her album while encountering characters from the "Time Flies Universe", with digitized versions of the album tracks providing the soundtrack.[67]
Brown is a lesbian.[3] On 9 January 2015, she married New Zealand actress, comedian, and filmmaker Madeleine Sami.[68] She moved from London to Los Angeles in 2013.[10][69] [70] On 20 June 2017 she announced her pregnancy.[71] After a police shooting occurred near their apartment, she returned to Auckland, NZ in 2017. Her first child, a daughter named Billie Jean,[3] was born on 20 October that year.[72] Sami and Brown announced the end of the relationship in 2023.[73]
Brown is a fan of video games, describing herself as "a big, big gamer".[74]
Brown has a contralto vocal range.[75]
The APRA Awards are held in Australia and New Zealand by the Australasian Performing Right Association to recognise songwriting skills, sales and airplay performance by its members annually.
Cricket is the most popular summer sport in New Zealand, second only in total sporting popularity to rugby.[3] New Zealand is one of the twelve countries that take part in Test match cricket.
The Reverend Henry Williams provided history with the first report of a game of cricket in New Zealand when he wrote in his diary in December 1832 about boys in and around Paihia on Horotutu Beach playing cricket. In 1835, Charles Darwin and HMS Beagle called into the Bay of Islands on its epic circumnavigation of the Earth and Darwin witnessed a game of cricket played by freed Māori slaves and the son of a missionary at Waimate North. Darwin in The Voyage of the Beagle wrote:[4]
several young men redeemed by the missionaires from slavery were employed on the farm. In the evening I saw a party of them at cricket.
The first recorded game of cricket in New Zealand took place in Wellington in December 1842. The Wellington Spectator reports a game on 28 December 1842 played by a "Red" team and a "Blue" team from the Wellington Club. The first fully recorded match was reported by the Examiner in Nelson between the Surveyors and Nelson in March 1844.
The first team to tour New Zealand was Parr's all England XI in 1863–64. Between 1864 and 1914, 22 foreign teams toured NZ. England sent 6 teams, Australia 15 and Fiji 1.
On 15–17 February 1894 the first team representing New Zealand played New South Wales at Lancaster Park in Christchurch. NSW won by 160 runs. New South Wales returned again in 1895–96 and NZ won the solitary game by 142 runs, its first victory. The New Zealand Cricket Council was formed towards the end of 1894.
New Zealand played its first two internationals (not Tests) in 1904–05 against a star-studded Australia team containing such players as Victor Trumper, Warwick Armstrong and Clem Hill. Rain saved NZ from a thrashing in the first match but not the second which NZ lost by an innings and 358 runs – currently the second largest defeat in NZ first-class cricket.
In 1927 NZ toured England. They played 26 first class matches, mostly against county sides. They managed to beat Worcestershire, Glamorgan, Somerset, and Derbyshire. On the strength of the performances on this tour NZ was granted Test status.
In 1929/30 the M.C.C toured NZ and played 4 Tests all of 3 days in duration. NZ lost its first Test match but drew the next 3. In the second Test Stewie Dempster and Jackie Mills put on 276 for the first wicket. This is still the highest partnership for New Zealand against England.
NZ first played South Africa in 1931–32 but were unable to secure Test matches against any teams other than England before World War II ended all Test cricket for 7 years. NZ's first Test after the war was against Australia in 1945/46. This game was not considered a "Test" at the time but it was granted Test status retrospectively by the International Cricket Council in March 1948. The NZ players who appeared in this match probably did not appreciate this move by the ICC as NZ were dismissed for 42 and 54. The New Zealand Cricket Council's unwillingness to pay Australian players a decent allowance to tour NZ ensured that this was the only Test Australia played against NZ between 1929 and 1972.
In 1949 NZ sent one of its best ever sides to England. It contained Bert Sutcliffe, Martin Donnelly, John R. Reid and Jack Cowie. However, 3-day Test matches ensured that all 4 Tests were drawn.
NZ played its first matches against the West Indies in 1951–52, and Pakistan and India in 1955/56.
In 1954/55 NZ recorded the lowest ever innings total, 26 against England. The following season NZ achieved its first Test victory. The first 3 Tests of a 4 Test series were won easily by the West Indies but NZ won the fourth to notch up its first Test victory. It had taken them 45 matches and 26 years. In the next 20 years NZ won only 7 more Tests. For most of this period NZ lacked a class bowler to lead their attack although they had 2 excellent batsmen in Glenn Turner and Bert Sutcliffe and a great all-rounder in John R. Reid.
In 1973 Richard Hadlee debuted and the rate at which NZ won Tests picked up dramatically. Hadlee was one of the best pace bowlers of his generation and played 86 Tests for NZ before he retired in 1990. Of the 86 Tests that Hadlee played in New Zealand won 22 and lost 28. In 1977/78 NZ won its first Test against England, at the 48th attempt. Hadlee took 10 wickets in the match.
During the 1980s NZ also had the services of one of its best ever batsman, Martin Crowe and a number of good players such as John Wright, Bruce Edgar, John F. Reid, Andrew Jones, Geoff Howarth, Jeremy Coney, Ian Smith, John Bracewell, Lance Cairns, Stephen Boock, and Ewen Chatfield, who were capable of playing the occasional match winning performance and consistently making a valuable contribution to a Test match.
The best example of NZ's two star players (R. Hadlee and M. Crowe) putting in match winning performances and other players making good contributions is NZ v Australia, 1985 at Brisbane. In Australia's first innings Hadlee took 9–52. In NZ's only innings, M Crowe scored 188 and John F. Reid 108. Edgar, Wright, Coney, Jeff Crowe, V. Brown, and Hadlee scored between 17 and 54*. In Australia's second innings, Hadlee took 6–71 and Chatfield 3–75. NZ won by an innings and 41 runs.
One-day cricket also gave NZ a chance to compete more regularly than Test cricket with the better sides in world cricket. In one-day cricket a batsman doesn't need to score centuries to win games for his side and bowlers don't need to bowl the opposition out. One-day games can be won by one batsman getting a 50, a few others getting 30s, bowlers bowling economically and everyone fielding well. These were requirements New Zealand players could consistently meet and thus developed a good one-day record against all sides.
Perhaps New Zealand's most famous one-day match was the infamous "Under arm" match against Australia at the MCG in 1981. Requiring six runs to tie the match off the final ball, Australian captain Greg Chappell instructed his brother Trevor to "bowl" the ball underarm along the wicket to prevent the New Zealand batsman from hitting a six. The Australian umpires ruled the move as legal even though to this day many believe it was one of the most unsporting decisions made in cricket.
When New Zealand next played in the tri-series in Australia in 1983, Lance Cairns became a cult hero for his one-day batting. In one match against Australia, he hit six sixes at the MCG, one of the world's largest grounds. Few fans remember that NZ lost this game by 149 runs. However, Lance's greatest contribution to NZ cricket was his son Chris Cairns.
Chris Cairns made his debut one year before Hadlee retired in 1990. Cairns, one of New Zealand's best allrounders, led the 1990s bowling attack with Danny Morrison. Stephen Fleming, NZ's most prolific scorer, led the batting and the team into the 21st century. Nathan Astle and Craig McMillan also scored plenty of runs for New Zealand, but both retired earlier than expected.
Daniel Vettori made his debut as an 18-year-old in 1997, and when he took over from Fleming as captain in 2007 he was regarded as the best spinning allrounder in world cricket. On 26 August 2009, Daniel Vettori became the eighth player and second left-arm bowler (after Chaminda Vaas) in history to take 300 wickets and score 3000 test runs, joining the illustrious club. Vettori decided to take an indefinite break from international short form cricket in 2011 but will continue to represent New Zealand in Test cricket.
Shane Bond played 17 Tests for NZ between 2001 and 2007 but missed far more through injury. When fit, he added a dimension to the NZ bowling attack that had been missing since Hadlee retired.
The rise of the financial power of the BCCI had an immense effect on NZ cricket and its players. The BCCI managed to convince other boards not to pick players who had joined the rival Twenty-20 Indian Cricket League. NZ Cricket lost the services of Shane Bond, Lou Vincent, Andre Adams, Hamish Marshall and Daryl Tuffey. The money to be made from Twenty-20 cricket in India may have also induced players, such as Craig McMillan and Scott Styris (from Test cricket) to retire earlier than they would have otherwise. After the demise of the Indian Cricket League, Bond and Tuffey again played for NZ.
New Zealand Cricket, formerly the New Zealand Cricket Board, is the governing body for professional cricket in New Zealand. Cricket is the most popular and highest profile summer sport in New Zealand.
New Zealand Cricket operates the New Zealand cricket team, organising Test tours, One Day Internationals and Twenty20 with other nations. It also organises domestic cricket in New Zealand, including the Plunket Shield (First-class), The Ford Trophy men's domestic one-day competition, the Hallyburton Johnstone Shield women's domestic one-day competition, as well as the Men's Super Smash and Women's Super Smash domestic Twenty20 competitions.
New Zealand Cricket involves the following men's domestic teams:
New Zealand Cricket involves the following women's domestic teams:
The Cricket World Cup is an international cricket championship that is played every four years and is one of the most popular sporting events in the world.
The first Cricket World Cup was played in England in 1975 and consisted of a number of one-day matches of 60 overs each. In 1987, it was first held outside of England in India and Pakistan. Additionally, the number of overs per side was decreased to 50 for the 1987 match. Australia became the first team to win three straight World Cup competitions in 2007.
There are numerous club grounds throughout New Zealand. Over 70 grounds have been used for First-class, List A and Twenty20 cricket matches.
The 16 grounds that have hosted men's international cricket games are listed in the table below.
As of 29 December 2021.
New Zealand was the inaugural winner of the ICC World Test Championship title. New Zealand lifted the 'Mace' in 2021 defeating India by 8 wickets in the final played at Rose bowl cricket ground in Southam-pton. In the same year New Zealand ended up as the runner up of ICC World Twenty20 Cricket World Cup.
Historically, the national cricket team has not been as successful as the national rugby union team. New Zealand played its first test in 1930 but had to wait until 1956 to win its first test. The national team began to have more success in the 1970s and 1980s. New Zealand's most famous cricketer, the fast bowler Richard Hadlee who was the first bowler to take 400 wickets in test cricket, played in this era.
Although traditionally New Zealand is one of the stronger sides in Cricket, they have only progressed past the semi-finals of the Cricket World Cup twice as runners up both in 2015 and 2019, but got caught short six times, the semi-finals of the Commonwealth Games and the semi-finals of the Pro20 World Championship, however they have won ICC Champions Trophy back in year 2000. Also New Zealand's Woman's Cricket Team has reached the World Cup finals.
The New Zealand women's cricket team played their first Test match in 1935, when they lost to England. Since then they have only won two Tests, once against Australia, and once against South Africa.
Their greatest success in one-day cricket was when they won the 2000 World Cup under captain Emily Drumm. In a hotly contested final, they scored 184 to narrowly beat Australia by four runs, Australia being all out for 180.
New Zealand Cricket has established High Performance Cricket training centre based at Lincoln University. It also operates a grassroots development programme for school children called 'MILO Kiwi Cricket' . John Wright, former NZ opening batsman, was appointed acting high performance manager for NZC in November 2007.
New Zealand has many private cricket academies and the Bracewell Cricket Academy based at Rathkeale College is one of the largest cricket academies, providing an Overseas Cricket Development Programme, a Pre-Season Coaching Camp, a Festival of Cricket.
There are around 170,000 registered cricketers in New Zealand[2] and is steadily increasing.[1][2][3] By way of comparison, Australia has 1.3 million[5] and the UK around 500,000.[6][7]
According to Mark O'Neill, New Zealand's batting coach from 2007 to 2009, the competition at club level in NZ is nowhere near as intense as in Australia.
"In Sydney there are 20 first grade teams, each club has five grades. To get to first grade you've got to be a friggin' good player and once you get there the competition is very, very fierce. Unfortunately it's not the same standard [in NZ]. Competition is everything and the only way the New Zealand guys are going to get that is to play the world's best players."[8]
New Zealand Cricket derives most of its revenue from the sale of 2 types of broadcasting rights.
Host nations pick up all the expenses of touring teams, but get sole access to all broadcast rights and gate receipts.
In November 2007 it was announced that NZC had made a 5-year deal for the broadcasting rights to home internationals for NZ$65.4m with Sony Entertainment Television. The previous four-year deal between NZC and ESPN-Star was for only NZ$14.4m. Part of the 5-fold increase in value is due to the Indian team's tour of NZ in 2009.
Immediately prior to the 2009 Indian tour of NZ the Sunday Star-Times reported that "NZ Cricket hits $25m jackpot".[9]
The article claimed that NZ Cricket will get $1 million for each of the 22 days the Indians take the field and that NZ Cricket had insured against loss of income for the sale of TV rights due to bad weather. NZC boss Justin Vaughan also said that a tour by India generates "many times" more income than tours by Australia, South Africa and England and that the Indian tour was worth more to NZC than the payout from the Cricket World Cup, which was around $20m.
The article also states that over the past two years, NZC's income has been around $30m, but this year (2009)[needs update] Vaughan is hoping to get more than $40 million from broadcast rights, sponsorship and ticket sales.
In 2007, the ICC sold the rights to broadcast the World Cup, the Champions Trophy and the ICC World Twenty20 to ESPN Star Sports until 2015 for US$1 billion. NZC will receive a slice of that.
In November 2017, Star Sports acquired the broadcast and digital rights for New Zealand Cricket for all men's and women's international matches being organised in the country till April 2020 for the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia.[10][11]
Twenty five per cent of NZC's revenue goes to pay player salaries.
In 2016 Kane Williamson, the top-ranked cricketer, earned NZ$205,266 as a basic retainer. This figure decreased in increments of $6000 and the 21st ranked player received $85,585. Kane Williamson also got a $40,000 captains fee. Players receive NZ$8,495 per test, NZ$3,682 per one-day international and NZ$2,407 for a Twenty20 international.[12][13] On average, they play 10 tests, 25–30 one-day games and around 10 Twenty20 matches a year. There is also prize money for winning games.
Players such as Williamson, Trent Boult and Tim Southee will play in virtually all of NZ's matches. So the top four or five players get between $300,000 and $400,000 from New Zealand Cricket, the next five or six between $180,000 and $300,000.[14]
As a result of the new 5-year deal and IPL income, top NZ cricketers are earning more than the All Blacks.[15]
Top-tier NZRU players are paid around NZ$500,000 per year by the NZRU.[16]
In 2009, Dan Carter, the most valuable New Zealand rugby player, was estimated to earn between $700,000 and $900,000 a year (including endorsements). McCullum, the highest paid cricketer, was estimated to be earning between $1 million and $1.5 million yearly, which included IPL payments.[14] By 2014[17] and even more so by 2016, cricketers were dropping down the New Zealand Herald sporting rich list as Rugby players and other sportsmen and women got more lucrative overseas contracts.[18] Several New Zealand cricketers came in places 11–20 with earnings of $NZ800,000 to $1.1m.[17]
Former Black Caps Nathan Astle, Chris Harris, Craig McMillan, Hamish Marshall, Lou Vincent and Daryl Tuffey who played in the "rebel" Indian Cricket League were effectively "banned" from ever playing for NZ again.
Justin Vaughan former NZ Cricket CEO, perhaps with one eye on the legal ramifications, did not use the "b" word but preferred terms such as; "the selectors will be encouraged to consider other players", or "overlooked for selection". It also appeared that the players would not be able to hold a contract from their provinces but would be allowed to play on a game by game basis.[19]
In January 2008 it was announced that Shane Bond had signed a US$800,000 a year contract to play for the ICL for 3 years. Bond's agent Leanne McGoldrick said that Bond intended to honour his contract with NZ cricket until May 2008. However, NZC decided to "overlook Bond for selection"  because all members of the International Cricket Council had agreed not to pick players who have signed for the rebel leagues. NZC did not want to jeopardise its relationship with the ICC, as it relies heavily on them for funding.[20]
This put Bond and NZC in a precarious position, as prior to signing his ICL contract, he had been given permission to play in the ICL by NZC (believing they were not contravening ICC rules) while still able to play in New Zealand international games. Bond chose not to press the issue, deciding to play solely in the ICL.
In September 1977, Tony Greig, Mike Procter and John Snow with support from Kerry Packer contested the bans they had been subjected to by the TCCB for playing in World Series Cricket in the English high court. The court ruled that the bans were a restraint of trade and therefore illegal.[21]
On 29 January 2008, the New Zealand Herald stated that Bond, who wants to play in the upcoming series against England, and NZ Cricket was released from his NZC contract and will not be chosen on a game-by-game basis. Bond appears to have given up on legal action for restraint of trade.[22]
Heath Mills, the executive manager of the New Zealand Cricket Players Association (NZCPA), was not so conciliatory. He accused NZC of acting to appease the Indian board (BCCI). Mills described the ICC operating manual regulation that purports to not allow [ICC members] to release players to participate in non-sanctioned events as restraint of trade.[23]
Mills also said :
"The NZCPA fully understands the position NZC has found itself and we do not want them to damage relationships with the BCCI and other ICC members. However, pressure to preserve these relationships should not be placed above preserving New Zealand's right to select its best players to represent the Black Caps, the rights and aspirations of New Zealand citizens to represent their country and the legal rights of players under their signed playing contracts.
Given the issues Bond has decided to stand aside from international cricket at NZC's request. The NZCPA supports this decision as it enables him to preserve a strong relationship with the board of NZC in the hope that he can again contribute to the game in New Zealand at some stage in the future. However, this is not a decision that he was compelled to make and under our contract system negotiated with NZC it remains open for any player to play for a third party like the ICL and still remain contracted to and play for NZC.
It is this situation that leaves the NZCPA concerned for cricket in New Zealand. We urge the ICC to step in and attempt to influence this situation and find a way to manage third party investment in our sport before we lose more players both here and around the world, and international cricket has been damaged further. History has shown that professional sports cannot afford to become split. It is absolutely vital that international cricket remains the pinnacle of the sport and that we ensure the best players are playing."
In any event, Bond himself has said that due to the risk of injury he no longer wants to play test cricket for NZ.[24]
Due to the financial problems as a result of the 2008 'credit crunch', the ICL cancelled part of its schedule, and offered to release the New Zealand players from their contracts, some of whom had not been paid for several months.
Millheim is a borough in Centre County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is part of the State College, Pennsylvania Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 904 at the 2010 census. The Millheim Historic District, which includes 176 contributing buildings, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1986.
Millheim is located at 40°53′28″N 77°28′33″W﻿ / ﻿40.89111°N 77.47583°W﻿ / 40.89111; -77.47583 (40.890981, -77.475954).[3]
According to the United States Census Bureau, the borough has a total area of 1.3 square miles (3.4 km2), all  land.
The town was named for having a millhouse situated along Elk Creek; the town still features the mill's raceway, which flows through the downtown area.
As of the census[5] of 2010, there were 904 people, 377 households, and 251 families residing in the borough. The population density was 684.8 inhabitants per square mile (264.4/km2). There were 417 housing units at an average density of 315.9 per square mile (122.0/km2). The racial makeup of the borough was 98.2% White, 0.1% Black or African American, 0.1% Native American, 0.1% other, and 1.5% from two or more races.
There were 377 households, out of which 31.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 47.7% were married couples living together, 5.6% had a male householder with no wife present, 13.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.4% were non-families. 28.4% of all households were made up of individuals, and 14.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.40 and the average family size was 2.94.
In the borough the population was spread out, with 25.1% under the age of 18, 6.7% from 18 to 24, 24.6% from 25 to 44, 25.8% from 45 to 64, and 17.8% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females there were 92.8 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 82.0 males.
The median income for a household in the borough was $43,077, and the median income for a family was $48,029.  The per capita income for the borough was $17,335. About 9.9% of families and 10.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 18.4% of those under age 18 and 3.8% of those age 65 or over.
Nikolai Mikhailovich Budarin (Russian: Николай Михайлович Бударин) (born April 29, 1953 in Kirya, Chuvashia) is a retired Russian cosmonaut, a veteran of three extended space missions aboard the Mir Space Station and the International Space Station. He has also performed eight career spacewalks with a total time of 44 hours.
Named a cosmonaut candidate in 1989, Budarin's first space mission was a long-term assignment aboard the space station Mir in 1995. Since then, he again made extended stays on Mir in 1998 and the International Space Station Expedition 6 from 2002 to 2003.
Nikolai Budarin is married to Marina Lvovna Budarina (née Sidorenko). They have two sons, Dmitry born in 1977 and Vladislav, born in 1983. His hobbies include fishing, skiing, picking mushrooms, tourism and cycling. His father, Mikhail Romanovich Budarin, died in 1984. His mother, Alexandra Mikhailovna Budarina, died in 1986.
Since 2007 he is a member of the Russian parliament, the State Duma, representing the pro-Kremlin United Russia party.
Specializing in aircraft manufacturing, Budarin graduated from the night-time education department of Ordzhonikidze Moscow Aviation Institute in 1979 with a mechanical engineering diploma.
From 1971 to 1973 Budarin was serving the Soviet Army in Czechoslovakia. Budarin occupied various engineering positions at NPO Energia where he was involved in experimental investigations and testing of space technology. From 1976 he was employed as an electrician, from 1978 as an electrical foreman, from 1982 as a test engineer, from 1986 as the head of a group, from 1988 until joining the cosmonauts corps as the lead specialist, head of a group at the NPO Energia check-out and testing facility.[1]
In February 1989 he was enrolled in the Energia cosmonaut detachment as a candidate test cosmonaut. From September 1989 to January 1991, he underwent a complete basic space training course at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center and passed a State examination and was qualified as a Test Cosmonaut. From February 1991 to December 1993, he took an advanced training course for the Soyuz-TM transport vehicle and the Mir Station flight. From May 1994 till February 1995 he completed training as the flight engineer of the backup crew of Soyuz TM-21 under Expedition-18/NASA-1 program, and, simultaneously, as the flight engineer of the main crew of Mir under Expedition-19 (Mir EO-19) program. From March 27 till May 1995, Budarin was trained for a mission under Mir EO-19 program as the flight engineer of the first crew, and from May 15 to June 26, he trained for the STS-71 mission in the United States.
From June 27 to September 11, 1995, Budarin participated in a space mission as a board engineer of the 19th long-term  Mir expedition. He was launched into space by Space Shuttle Atlantis on the STS-71 mission. Atlantis lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center at 19:32:19 UTC on June 27, 1995. After 2 days of solo flight the space shuttle docked with the Mir station on June 29, 1995, at 13:00:16 UTC. Budarin spent 75 days, 11 hours and 20minutes in space and landed on the Soyuz TM-21 spacecraft. The Soyuz capsule carrying Budarin and cosmonaut Anatoly Solovyev landed on September 11, 1995 at 06:52:40 UTC, 108 km north east of Arkalyk.
From January 28 to August 25, 1998, he participated in a space mission as a board engineer of the 25th long-term expedition aboard the Mir orbital station. The Soyuz TM-27 spacecraft with Budarin, cosmonaut Talgat Musabayev and ESA astronaut Léopold Eyharts lifted off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome on January 29, 1998, at 16:33:42 UTC. Following a two-day autonomous flight the Soyuz spacecraft docked with the Mir station on January 31, 1998. Musabayev and Budarin together with NASA astronaut Andy Thomas became the 25th resident crew of Mir. First in the focus of the crew was the French mission PEGASE which was mainly dedicated to the life sciences, physical sciences physiques and space technology.[2] They also worked on common scientific experiments. Soyuz TM-27 carrying Budarin, Musabayev and Yuri Baturin landed near Dzhezkazgan on August 25, 1998 at 05:24:44 UTC. During the Soyuz and Mir missions Budarin spent 207 days, 12 hours and 51 minutes in space.
From November 23, 2002 to May 3, 2003, Budarin logged 161 days, 1 hour and 14 minutes in space as Expedition 6 Flight Engineer aboard the International Space Station. The Expedition 6 crew was launched by Space Shuttle  Endeavour on the STS-113 mission.[3] Endeavour launched into space from the KSC LC-39A on November 24, 2002, at 00:49:47 UTC and docked with the International Space Station (ISS) on 25 November 2002 at 21:59 UTC. During the stay aboard the ISS, Budrain spent time between several Russian science and medical experiments.[4] One experiment called Diatomeya involved observation of ocean surface in order to determine regions best suited for fishing. Another was to monitor glacier dynamics from space to better understand the effects of global warming. The medical research he conducted studied the effects of microgravity on the human body. Budarin returned to Earth on board the Soyuz TMA-1 spacecraft with NASA astronauts Kenneth Bowersox and Donald Pettit. The capsule landed on May 4, 2003 at 02:04:25 UTC and following a ballistic trajectory.[5] A technical commission was established to find the cause of the problem. It revealed that the cause of switching to the ballistic descent mode was an inadequate reaction of the descent control unit within the descent control system to the signals from gyroscope and the angular rate meter.[6]
During his two visits to the Mir orbital station, Budarin performed eight spacewalks totaling 44 hours.
On July 14, 1995, Budarin conducted his first career spacewalk joined by fellow cosmonaut, Anatoly Solovyev. The two spacewalkers deployed the Spektr solar array and inspected the docking port. The spacewalk lasted 5 hours and 34 minutes.
On July 19, 1995, Budarin conducted his second career spacewalk along with Anatoly Solovyev. The two prepared for MIRAS spectrometer deployment and retrieved the TREK experiment and changed exposure materials. The spacewalk lasted 3 hours and 8 minutes.
Two days later on July 21, Budarin conducted his third career spacewalk, again with Solovyev. During the 5 hour 35 minute EVA, the two installed the MIRAS spectrometer.
On April 1, 1998, Budarin conducted his fourth career spacewalk. He and fellow cosmonaut Talgat Musabayev started repairing a solar panel damaged in the collision between Mir and the Progress M-34 supply ship.[7] The spacewalk started at 13:35 UTC and ended at 20:15 UTC, lasting 6 hours and 40 minutes.
On April 6, 1998, Budarin conducted his fifth career spacewalk, with Talgat Musabayev. The two completed the repair work on the broken Spektr solar panel. The spacewalk lasted 4 hours and 15 minutes. While the two spacewalkers were struggling with installing a brace on the solar panel, Mir suddenly went to free drift and began turning away from the sun.[8] The two were ordered to rush through the final bracing procedure and then perform an expedited entry. The spacewalk was originally planned for March 3, but the crew was unable to open the EVA hatch leading to space, which necessitated the rescheduling of the spacewalk. Budarin failed to open the last of the 10 locks that was closed so tightly and in the process he broke three wrenches.[9]
On April 11, 1998, Budarin conducted his sixth career spacewalk. Along with Talgat Musabayev, the two removed Mir's VDU. The spacewalk lasted 6 hours and 25 minutes.
On April 17, 1998, Budarin conducted his seventh career spacewalk. During a 6-hour 33 minute spacewalk, Budarin and Talgat Musabayev installed a new VDU which was delivered by Progress M-38. The spacewalk lasted 6 hours and 33 minutes.
Five days later on April 22, Budarin completed his eighth career spacewalk. He and Musabayev completed the new VDU installation. The spacewalk lasted 6 hours and 21 minutes.
During Expedition 6, on January 15, 2003, Budarin was supposed to join NASA astronaut Kenneth Bowersox in a six-hour spacewalk outside the ISS. However, after failing to meet U.S standards in tests on a stationary bicycle in December 2002, NASA barred him from making a spacewalk citing medical reasons.[10]  The claim was rejected by the Russian authorities, which pronounced Budarin was healthy despite NASA concerns about cardiovascular "peculiarities". They said that the peculiarities of Budarin's cardiovascular system were known to the authorities and that Budarin had them on previous flights as well. The spacewalk was eventually carried out by NASA astronauts Bowersox and Donald Pettit.
 This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Dul Kor (Persian: دول كر, also Romanized as Dūl Kor; also known as Delkorū, Dolkorū, Dūl Korū, and Eslāmābād)[1] is a village in Avalan Rural District, Muchesh District, Kamyaran County, Kurdistan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 202, in 63 families.[2] The village is populated by Kurds.[3]
This Kamyaran County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Simdega subdivision is an administrative subdivision of the Simdega district in the South Chotanagpur division in the state of Jharkhand, India.
Simdega subdivision was established in 1915 and was one of the four subdivisions of Ranchi district. In 1983, it became a part of the Gumla district when the latter was formed and in 2001, it became a part of the Simdega district when the latter was formed.[1][2][3]
Simdega district has only one subdivision – Simdega subdivision. There are 10 blocks in Simedga subdivision – Bano, Bansjore, Bolba, Jaldega, Koldega, Kolebira, Kurdeg, Pakartanr, Simdega and Thethaitangar.[4]
Simdega subdivision covers 3774.00 km2 and has a population of 599,578 in 2011. The subdivision has 450 villages (449 inhabited and 1 uninhabited), and 1 statutory town. Over 90% of the population lives in the rural areas.[5][6]
Police stations in Simdega subdivision are:[3]
Community development blocks in the Simdega subdivision are:[6]
In 2011, in Simdega subdivision out of a total 449 inhabited villages in 10 CD blocks there were 117 villages with pre-primary schools, 417 villages with primary schools, 243 villages with middle schools, 65 villages with secondary schools, 13 villages with senior secondary schools, 1 village with general degree college, 2 villages with vocation training schools/ ITI, 6 villages with non-formal training centres, 26 villages with no educational facility.[7]
The only nagar panchayat had 10 primary schools, 18 middle schools, 5 secondary schools, 5 senior secondary schools, 1 general degree college, 2 recognised shorthand, typewriting, and vocational training institutions and 1 non-formal education centre (Sarba Shiksha Abhiyan).[7]
.*Senior secondary schools are also known as Inter colleges in Jharkhand.
The following institutions are located in Simdega subdivision: 
(Information about degree colleges with proper reference may be added here)
In 2011, in Simdega subdivision, in the 10 CD blocks, there were 17 villages with primary health centres, 131 villages with primary health subcentres, 29 villages with maternity and child welfare centres, 18 villages with allopathic hospitals, 23 villages with dispensaries, 2 villages with a veterinary hospitals, 26 villages with family welfare centres, 101 villages with medicine shops.[7]
The only nagar panchayat had 1 hospital, 1 nursing home, 2 dispensaries, 1 maternity and child welfare centre, 1 veterinary hospital, 7 medicine shops.   
.*Private medical practitioners, alternative medicine etc. not included
The major government medical facilities are: Referral Hospital at Thethaitangar and Community Health Centres (hospitals) at Bano, Bolba, Jaldega, Kolebira and Kurdeg.[12]
(Anybody having referenced information about location of government/ private medical facilities may please add it here)
Water supply and sanitation is an ongoing challenge in the nation of Angola.[1]
Angola has historically had issues with corruption and instability hindering its water infrastructure development.
Despite being a relatively poor country, water access has improved in recent history. The percentage of Angolans with access to a stable water supply grew from 42% in 1990 to 54% in 2012.[2]

This Angola-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kriegspiel is a board wargame published by Avalon Hill in 1970 that simulates a hypothetical war between two nations. Although the simple game sold well to new players, it received negative reviews by more experienced gamers.
Kriegspiel is a two-player wargame of conquest that is designed to teach the basics of wargaming to new players.
The game box contains:[1]
The game uses a simple alternating "I Go, You Go" system of movement and combat: one player moves and fires, and then the other player moves and fires. Instead of dice traditionally used in wargames to determine the results of combat, Kriegspiel cross-references the attacker/defender ratio against one of four defensive strategies and one of three offensive strategies to produce a combat result.[2][3] There are also rules covering invasions, weather, prisoners, supply, and diplomacy.[1]
In early 1970, Avalon Hill Vice-president Tom Shaw was expecting freelance game designer Jim Dunnigan to deliver a new introductory wargame in time for the American Toy Fair in March. However, Dunnigan was busy starting up his new company Simulations Publications Inc. (SPI) and was unable to deliver the expected game.[1] Shaw decided to quickly design the game himself; in his own words, Kriegspiel was "one of my least serious games done in a panic in order to meet a toy fair deadline."[4] He decided on an abstract game, something that Avalon Hill was known for. As Henry Lowood noted in the 2016 book Zones of Control: Perspectives on Wargaming, "During the Charles S. Roberts years and beyond, Avalon Hill wargames often portrayed hypothetical or abstract conflicts (Tactics, Tactics II, Blitzkrieg, [and] Kriegspiel.)"[5]
The game proved popular among players new to the hobby, with sales of 86,000 units over ten years. But Kriegspiel met with universal disdain from veteran wargamers, and in a 1976 poll undertaken by SPI to determine the most popular wargames in North America, Kriegspiel was ranked dead last out of 202 games. In a similar poll conducted by Avalon Hill covering 25 of their own products, Kriegspiel again came in last.
As the Avalon Hill Company History noted in 1980, "Kriegspiel was a dismal failure from the wargamer's point of view. It was a constant target of derisive critics [...] Tom [Shaw]’s interests were shifting to the business end of the hobby and he had little interest in keeping up with the 'state of the art' in the design end. Fortunately for him and for AH, he restricted his talents to marketing hereafter and left wargame design to new faces."[6]
Publication of Kriegspiel was discontinued in 1979.[6]
Kriegspiel received negative reviews upon its release. In his 1977 book The Comprehensive Guide to Board Wargaming, Nicholas Palmer said the low popularity of the game was because it "is far too simple for experienced wargamers." However, Palmer thought that it was "also of doubtful value to beginners." Although he thought the game had plenty of interesting rules, "The trouble is that the game's scale is too small, with the result coming after a few brisk firefights before any plan can really get underway." Palmer concluded that for that reason, it was not a good introduction to other wargames either.[7]
In Issue 15 of Simulacrum, Joe Scoleri called Kriegspiel "close to being a great little introductory wargame [but] it left a lot to be desired." Scoleri didn't like the diceless combat result mechanism, calling it a simple and unexciting rock-paper-scissors exercise. He concluded that the small size of the game (only 45 counters) "made for limited gameplay value even though this was probably intended to make it more accessible to new gamers."[1]
In Issue 21 of Albion, Don Turnbull noted that "Kriegspiel is not likely to make the same impact on 'hard-core' wargamers as did, say, Anzio. Not that sales have been poor — in fact I gather they have been magnificent; but the majority of the buyers represent just that section of the community Avalon Hill were after — the casual buyer — the mass-market member — who has a passing interest in games, but not in wargames per se."[2]
In A Player's Guide to Table Games, John Jackson noted "There are not enough units or movement factors in Kriegspiel to risk anything more daring or decisive than a cautious advance."[8]
A "travelling" copy of Kriegspiel is traditionally the last item offered for sale during the Gencon Charity Auction. The game is returned to the convention the following year to be resold.[9]
Geoffrey Alban Michael Houghton Brown (12 April 1903 - 3 February 1993) was an artist and connoisseur.
Geoffrey Alban Michael Houghton Brown was born in Wimbledon on 12 April 1903.[1]
During World War II, considered unfit for service, he volunteered to extinguish fires following the bombings on the roof of Westminster Abbey.[1]
In 1947 he bought Winslow Hall, a Grade I building that was under threat of demolition. It became an antiques showroom, and was sold again in 1959.[2] Other than Winslow Hall, he owned Clouds House, Oving Hall, and Felix Hall.[1]
Other than collector of 18th century furniture, Houghton Brown was a painter of religious pictures in the Byzantine- Cubist style and had a studio in Tottenham Court Road. He was friend, and follower, of Roy de Maistre. He exhibited at the Ebury Street gallery, "Sacred Abstract Art".[1]
He edited an apologia of Nostradamus.[1]
He was also friends with Father Martin D'Arcy, Oliver Messel and James Lees-Milne. His lifelong companion was Ronald Fleming (1896 - 1968).[3][1]
Geoffrey Houghton-Brown died in Kingston upon Thames on 3 February 1993.[1]
Ralf Salzmann (born February 6, 1955, in Kassel, Hesse) is a former long-distance runner from Germany, who represented West Germany in the men's marathon at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California. There he finished in 18th position, clocking 2:15:29. Four years later, when Seoul, South Korea hosted the Games, he ended up in 23rd place (2:16:54). He won the Tiberias Marathon in 1982.

This biographical article about a German long-distance runner is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Thanha Rathi Ranga (Between Yesterday and Tomorrow) (Sinhala: තණ්හා රතී රඟා) is a 2014 Sri Lankan Sinhala drama thriller film directed by Nilendra Deshapriya, in his directorial debut,[1] and produced by Sunil T. Fernando for Sunil T. Films.
It was written by Sarath Kothalawala and Kumara Thirimadura and features themselves in lead roles with Namal Jayasinghe. The film also supported by many veteran artists like Swarna Mallawarachchi, Anoja Weerasinghe, Neeta Fernando and Kamal Addararachchi. It is the 1113rd Sri Lankan film in the Sinhala cinema.[2]
The film was an official entry at the Julien Dubuque International Film Festival in the United States.[1]
This story revolves around three friends, Sirithunga (Sarath Kothalawala) a handyman and father of three young children, Wimal (Kumara Thirimadura) a three-wheeler driver, and Suraj (Namal Jayasinghe) an overly sensitive university student. The three friends decide following the end of the Sri Lankan Civil War to take a road trip, to areas where the final battles were fought. They each dream of a better life, a future with freedom, love and money.[3]
2015 SIGNIS Film Awards[5]
2016 Derana Sunsilk Film Awards[6]
The film easily passed 50 days of screening.[7]
Goswami Durgapur Union (Bengali: গোস্বামী দুর্গাপুর ইউনিয়ন) is a union parishad situated at Kushtia Sadar Upazila,  in Kushtia District, Khulna Division of Bangladesh.[1] The union has an area of 62.81 square kilometres (24.25 sq mi) and as of 2001 had a population of 15,900.[2] There are 11 villages and 2 mouzas in the union.

This Khulna Division  location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The environment of North Korea comprises the diverse ecosystems of the part of the Korean peninsula controlled by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. This includes alpine, forest, farmland, freshwater, and marine ecosystems. 
Since the 1980s, the environment has been reported to be in a state of "crisis", "catastrophe", or "collapse".[1][2][3] Pollution and deforestation are key problems. However, this has been contested by some accounts. In addition, North Korea has some environmental programs to mitigate the problems.
More than 80 percent of North Korea is mountainous with cultivation largely confined to coastal strips in the east and west.[4]  According to a United Nations Environmental Programme report in 2003, forest covers over 70 percent of the country, mostly on steep slopes.[5] However, other studies have suggested that, due to deforestation, forest cover was only about 50%.[6] There are nine rivers and numerous smaller waterways.[7] The environment is correspondingly diverse, consisting of alpine, forest, farmland, freshwater, and marine ecosystems.[8]
Due to its geological history, the country has a range of vegetation, from the subtropical, temperate and frigid zones, which are able to coexist due to the combined effects of oceanic and continental climates.[9]  The climate has pronounced seasonal variations, with warm summers and snowfall in winter.[10]
In 2003, animal and plant species in North Korea were reported to be "profuse".  Four percent of the higher plant species were reported to be endangered, vulnerable, rare, or in decline.  Eleven percent of vertebrate species were reported to be critically endangered, endangered, or rare.[11]
In 2013 a delegation of visiting scientists reported major environmental devastation. They described an absence of wildlife and said that the "landscape is basically dead". This situation was described as "so severe it could destabilize the whole country".[2]
However, a group of birdwatchers from the Pukorokoro Miranda Naturalists' Trust, New Zealand, visited the Yellow Sea shore of Mundŏk County in South P'yŏngan province in 2016 and reported that the mudflats there were a haven for bird life. The relative lack of development there compared to nearby China and South Korea had provided a refuge for several internationally important birds on their migration along the East Asian-Australasian Flyway - such as the critically endangered Eastern curlew, the Eurasian curlew and the bar-tailed godwit.[12]
The flora of North Korea has much in common with that of other areas of the northern hemisphere. 2898 species have been recorded, of which 14% are endemic. Four are classified as threatened.[13]
The native plant communities in the lowlands have largely disappeared with cultivation and urbanisation. Native conifer forest communities are located in the highlands. The forest types are mainly subarctic (boreal) and cool-temperate forest.[14]
In 2003, air pollution in Pyongyang, largely due to combustion of coal, was reported to be unacceptable.[1][15]  This is somewhat mitigated by the high use of public transport in urban areas.[16]
In 2003, the pollution of rivers and streams was reported to be "severe" due to a decrease in investment in environmental protection and the improper discharge of untreated sewage and industrial effluent. The quality of the Taedong River, which flows through Pyongyang, was reported to be "deteoriating", exacerbated by the construction of the West Sea Barrage.[1][17] A survey conducted in 2017 found that 93% of sanitation facilities were not connected to a sewage system. Rather, the human waste was used as fertilizer on fields, creating the potential health risk of spreading intestinal worms.[18]
North Korea produces large quantities of DDT and other pesticides.[6]
Cultivation, logging, and natural disasters have all put pressure on North Korea's forests. During the economic crisis of the 1990s, deforestation accelerated, as people turned to the woodlands to provide firewood and food.  This in turn has led to soil erosion, soil depletion, and increased risk of flooding.[1][2][3][19]
Based on satellite imagery in 2013, it has been estimated that 40 percent of forest cover has been lost since 1985.[20]  The United Nations Environmental Programme in 2003 reported a much smaller rate of depletion.[21]
A forest restoration policy has been in place since 2012, especially on hillsides around Pyongyang and in South Pyongan Province. However deforestation appears to continue in remote areas. New crop cultivation of slopes exceeding 15 degrees has been banned to help prevent erosion and landslides.[22]
In 2018, North Korea had a Forest Landscape Integrity Index mean score of 8.02/10, ranking it 28th globally out of 172 countries.[23] Satellite analysis of North Korean land in 2019 indicated forests accounted for 45%, farmland for 27% and grasslands for 13%.[22]
In recent years, forest cover has been growing at 0.2% every year up to 45% in 2019, with forests reemerging especially around Pyongyang, although in some rural areas, deforestation has still occurred, due to wood being an easy source of fuel in the countryside.[22]
North Korea is highly vulnerable to climate change to the effects of climate change due to its weak food security, which in the past has led to widespread famine.[24] The North Korean Ministry of Land and Environmental Protection estimates that North Korea's average temperature rose by 1.9 °C between 1918 and 2000.[25] In the 2013 edition of Germanwatch's Climate Risk Index, North Korea was judged to be the seventh hardest hit by climate-related extreme weather events of 179 nations during the period 1992–2011.[26]
In response to the deforestation problem, North Korea has implemented a tree planting program.[31][32] In 2016, the Korean Central News Agency reported that the Central Nursery under the Ministry of Land and Environment Protection had produced 90 million saplings over the past five years for distribution around the country.[33] Official pronouncements have labeled illegal forest destruction as "treachery" and threatened perpetrators with the death penalty.[34] In 2017, Kim Il-sung University announced the opening of a new Forest Science Department.[35] In 2018, North Korea made an agreement with the South on forestry co-operation.[36]
The North Korean government has ratified the Kyoto Protocol on global warming and has been co-operating with international efforts to combat climate change.[37] It has invested in the development of solar and other renewable energy technology.[38] In 2017, the Foreign Ministry condemned the US government for withdrawing from the Paris Agreement.[39]
North Korea has participated in international environmental projects, such as the conservation of the red-crowned crane.[40] In 2017, Pyongyang hosted a workshop on the conservation of wetlands and migratory waterbirds, attended by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, the Hanns Seidel Foundation, and the East Asian Australasian Flyway Partnership.[41]
While recycling of materials in North Korea has always been a practice, a new law in 2020 gave it a much higher profile and required organizations to recycle. A national recycling plan stipulated the minimum recycling quantity for certain materials, and placed requirements at the province, county and city levels. Economic reasons are a strong driver of this effort, reducing some imports.[42]
Vladislava Evtushenko (Russian: Владислава Евтушенко; born May 1, 1996) is a Russian actress, dancer, model, and beauty pageant titleholder who was placed as the 1st Runner-up of Miss Russia 2015 and appointed as Miss Universe Russia 2015. She represented Russia at the Miss Universe 2015 pageant.
Vladislava was born on May 1, 1996, in Chita, Zabaykalsky Krai, Russia.[1]
Sofia Nikitchuk was crowned Miss Russia 2015. The first “Vice-Miss” was Vladislava and the second “Vice-Miss” was Anastasia Naydenova.[citation needed]
Traditionally, Miss Russia sends the winner of the Miss Russia pageant to the Miss Universe pageant. In October 2015, Vladislava was appointed as Miss Universe Russia by the Miss Russia Committee. Sofia Nikitchuk was replaced by Vladislava after Miss Universe 2015 was scheduled on December 20, 2015,  and Nikitchuk had to participate in Miss World, which took place on December 19, 2015.[citation needed]
In the Miss Universe 2015 pageant, held on 20 December 2015, Evtushenko did not place as a semi-finalist.
In 2016, she starred in the music video for Russia's 2016 Eurovision entry "You Are the Only One" by Sergey Lazarev.[2]
William Samuel Bambridge (24 October 1819 – 1 May 1879) was a school-teacher who accompanied George Augustus Selwyn and William Charles Cotton in the Te Waimate mission, New Zealand, before returning to England where he became photographer to Queen Victoria. Three of his sons became England international footballers.
Bambridge was born in Windsor, Berkshire, England, the second son of George White Bambridge and his second wife, Harriet. His father was a professional flautist whose first wife had died within two years of their marriage. He had three children with Harriet who died in June 1821, shortly after the birth of her third son. George remarried in December 1848 and his third wife, Mary, bore him three children, the last of whom was born in December 1853, when George was 64. George died in September 1860.[1]
William Bambridge married Sophia Thorington at Clewer on 2 November 1841. Bambridge had trained as a teacher and was recruited by Selwyn who had recently been appointed as the first bishop for New Zealand. Selwyn had been parish priest at Windsor and a tutor at Eton College and recruited most of the other clergy and ordinands from the surrounding area of Eton and Windsor to accompany him on his mission. The party also included William Charles Cotton who had been appointed as chaplain. The missionary party of 23 members set sail from Plymouth late on 26 December 1841 on board the barque Tomatin. In April 1842, the Tomatin arrived in Sydney. The boat was damaged by a rock on entering their landing place and, rather than wait for its repair, some of the party, including Selwyn, Cotton and Bambridge, set sail for New Zealand on the brig Bristolian on 19 May. They arrived in Auckland on 30 May.  After spending some time as guests of Captain William Hobson, the first Governor of New Zealand, they set sail for the Bay of Islands on the schooner Wave on 12 June, arriving on 20 June.[2]: 56–65 
Selwyn had decided to set up residence at the Waimate Mission Station, some 15 miles (24 km) inland from Paihia where the Church Missionary Society had established a settlement 11 years earlier. Waimate was to be the Anglican ecclesiastical centre for the whole of New Zealand, and to that end Selwyn had planned for the training of ordinands; a school for Maori and missionary children; farming and agriculture; workshops for printing and carpentry, all with a view to becoming self-supporting, and all to be under the name of St John's College. It was to become a power house to fuel the spread of the Gospel throughout New Zealand and the islands beyond. Bambridge spent his days in the schoolroom teaching reading, writing, arithmetic, drawing, singing and religious knowledge. His contributions to Cotton's journal testify to his beautiful copperplate hand writing and facility in drawing.
Like his father, Bambridge was a keen musician and a flautist of some competence; with other members of the party, they entertained the missionaries with chamber music. Bambridge was also an accomplished artist and recorded the Mission buildings, occupants, scenery and activities by drawing and water colour.
In July 1842, Sophia gave birth to her first child, also called William Samuel with George Frederic being born in April 1844.[3]
Later in 1844, Selwyn decided to move some 160 miles (257 km) south to Tamaki near Auckland where he bought 450 acres (1.8 km2) of land, giving it the name of Bishop's Auckland.  The party left on 23 October and arrived in Auckland on 17 November. William and Sophia's third child, Sophia Esther, was born in August 1846 at Purewa. By now, Sophia was struggling with the rigours of life in the mission and was longing to return to England. Eventually, Selwyn was persuaded to release Bambridge from his contract and the family finally left New Zealand in December 1847, together with Cotton, arriving back in England in May 1848.[2]: 155–161 
Shortly after arriving back in England, Bambridge joined the studio of William Fox Talbot in the castle at Windsor. In 1854, he was appointed the Royal Photographer to Queen Victoria, remaining in the Queen's employment for 14 years. His subjects include not only members of the royal family and their pets but also still life, scenes from the royal hunts etc. Many of his photographs are now housed in the Royal Collection. Bambridge used the wet collodion process invented by Frederick Scott Archer on glass plate negatives.
One striking photograph in the collection is a portrait of Hare Pomare, a Māori chief who was visiting Windsor shortly after the death of Prince Albert. During the visit, the chief's wife gave birth and Queen Victoria was godmother at the christening of the child, named Albert Victor Pomare. Bambridge was called on to photograph the christening.[4] Hare Pomare was also to feature in the works of William Strutt.[5]
Bambridge died in Wandsworth, London, in May 1879 and is buried in Clewer churchyard, along with his brother George, and his father. His death certificate states that he died from "Exhaustion and Paralysis".
William and Sophia had six children of whom the latter three sons were all born at Windsor between 1849 and 1861. All the sons were keen footballers. The first-born son, William Samuel became Professor of Music and Organist at Marlborough College and named his home in the town of Marlborough, "The Waimate". The publication of one of his letters in "The Field" regarding the problems in using local rules in football contributed to establishment of one set of laws by the Football Association in April 1877.
His first son, William Herbert Bambridge, died at Béthune, France, in the First World War. The second son, George Frederic became Secretary to Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh. His son George Louis St Clair Bambridge married Elsie, daughter of Rudyard Kipling.
The three younger sons all joined the local Swifts team from where they were selected to play for the England national team. The eldest of the three, Ernest, made only one appearance for his country whilst his younger brothers, Charles and Arthur played 18 and 3 times respectively for England. Charles was the first player to score ten international goals for England and was twice appointed England's captain.
Wilhelm Lenz (February 8, 1888 in Frankfurt am Main – April 30, 1957 in Hamburg) was a German physicist, most notable for his invention of the Ising model[1] and for his application of the Laplace–Runge–Lenz vector to the old quantum mechanical treatment of  hydrogen-like atoms.[2]
In 1906, Lenz graduated from the Klinger-Oberralschule, a non-classical secondary school in Frankfurt, and went to study mathematics and physics at the University of Göttingen.  From 1908 to 1911, Lenz studied under Arnold Sommerfeld, at the University of Munich, and he was granted his doctorate[3] on March 2, 1911.  Upon graduation, he stayed on at the University, became Sommerfeld’s assistant on April 1, 1911, and he completed his Habilitation on February 20, 1914, becoming a Privatdozent on April 4, 1914.  During World War I, he served as a radio operator in France and was awarded the Iron Cross Second Class in 1916.  From September 30, 1920, he was again an assistant to Sommerfeld at the University of Munich’s Institute of Theoretical Physics, and he was appointed to the title and rank of extraordinarius professor at the University, on November 11, 1920.  On December 1, 1920 he became an extraordinarius professor at the University of Rostock. From 1921, until his retirement in 1956, he was at the University of Hamburg, as Ordinarius Professor of Theoretical Physics and Director of the Institute of Theoretical Physics.[4][5][6][7]
The formation of the new chair and institute for theoretical physics at Hamburg was a result of advances being made in Germany on atomic physics and quantum mechanics and the personal intervention of Sommerfeld, who helped many of his students get such professorships.[8]
At Hamburg, Lenz trained Ernst Ising and J. Hans D. Jensen; his assistants there included Wolfgang Pauli[9] Pascual Jordan,[10] and Albrecht Unsöld.[11]  Together with Pauli and Otto Stern, Lenz built up the Institute into an international center for nuclear physics.  They maintained close scientific and personal exchanges with the institutes for theoretical physics at the Universities in Munich (Sommerfeld), Göttingen (Max Born), and Copenhagen (Niels Bohr).[6][7]
When Lenz retired in 1956 he was succeeded by Harry Lehmann.
The Lenz-Ising model[12] can be viewed as the first artificial recurrent neural network (RNN) architecture consisting of neuron-like threshold elements.[13] In 1972, Shun'ichi Amari made this architecture adaptive.[14][13] This learning RNN was popularised in 1982.[15]
Khomasdal Constituency (until 2013: Khomasdal North Constituency)[1] is a constituency in Windhoek in the Khomas Region of Namibia. As of December 2019[update] it had 25,550 registered voters.[2] The constituency consists of parts of the suburbs Khomasdal, Katutura, and Otjomuise.[3] It had a population of 43,921 in 2011, up from 27,950 in 2001.[4]
The first councillor of this constituency was Karel Persendt (SWAPO). In 1998, Margaret Mensah-Williams, also on a SWAPO ticket, took over from him. She was subsequently selected to represent Khomas Region in the National Council, and in 1999 she became its vice-chairperson (Deputy Speaker), the first woman to be elected to a major decision-making position in Namibia.[3] Mensah-Williams was re-elected in 2004 and 2010. She also won the 2015 regional elections with 4,121 votes. Sylvester Kazapua of the Democratic Turnhalle Alliance (DTA) came second with 723 votes. Uzikama Kandjii of the National Unity Democratic Organisation (NUDO, 384 votes) and Bartholomeus Kauahuma of the South West Africa National Union (SWANU, 170 votes) also contested this election.[5]
After councillor Mensah-Williams was fielded as a parliamentary candidate in the 2019 Namibian general election, a by-election became necessary for Khomasdal because Namibian electoral law prohibits sitting councillors and members of the public service to run for a seat in parliament.[6] The by-election was conducted on 15 January 2020. Samuel Angolo (SWAPO) won with 1,227 votes, followed by Mara Baumgartner (Landless People's Movement (LPM), 349 votes), Raymond Diergaardt (Popular Democratic Movement (PDM), 326 votes) and Bartholomeus Kauahuma (SWANU, 202 votes).[2] Councillor Angolo of SWAPO was re-elected in the 2020 regional election receiving 2,337 votes. Frans Wilbard of the Independent Patriots for Change (IPC), an opposition party formed in August 2020, came second with 1,503 votes. This election was also contested by the LPM (candidate Christiaan Tseitseimou, 1,285 votes), the PDM (Nadine Pienaar, 881 votes), and the NUDO (Sylvester Kazapua, 679 votes).[7]
22°32′28″S 17°03′30″E﻿ / ﻿22.54111°S 17.05833°E﻿ / -22.54111; 17.05833
Milionář (English translation: Millionaire) was a Czech game show based on the original British format of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?. The show was hosted by Roman Šmucler. The main goal of the game was to win 2,000,000 Kč by answering 15 multiple-choice questions correctly. There were 4 lifelines - fifty fifty (50:50), phone a friend (přítel na telefonu), ask the audience (rada publika) and switch the question (výměna otázky). The game show was shown on the Czech TV station Prima TV. When a contestant got the fifth question correct, he left with at least 10,000 Kč. When a contestant got the tenth question correct, he left with at least 80,000 Kč. Earlier, the game show was called Chcete být milionářem?.
No contestant won the top prize in this version. The biggest winner is Jiří Lener, who won 500,000 Kč on 7 March 2008.

This article about a television game show is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Czech Republic television show-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Thomas Prout Webb (22 January 1845 – 22 November 1916) was an Australian barrister and judge.[1]
Webb was the fourth son of Robert Saunders Webb, the first collector of customs at Port Phillip, by his wife Ann, daughter of Lieutenant Fisher, R.N., was born at Newtown (now called Fitzroy), Melbourne. Mr. Webb was educated at the Church of England Grammar School, Melbourne,  and at  the University of Melbourne  (B.A., 1867)[2] where he studied under professor William Hearn.[1] He then studied at King's College London, entered at Lincoln's Inn in November 1867, and was called to the Bar in June 1870, having won the Inns of Court Exhibition in Constitutional Law and Legal History in the previous year.[2]
Webb was admitted to the Victorian Bar in 1872, and practised on the equity side of the Supreme Court until 1884, when he was appointed assistant chief clerk under the Judicature Act, the rules of which he assisted in drafting.[2] In October 1884 he succeeded Mr. Wilkinson as Master in Equity and Master in Lunacy. He acted as Deputy Commissioner of Titles during Mr. Bunny's illness, and in 1885, on Mr. Bunny's death, he was Commissioner of Titles for some months concurrently with his other offices.[2] In March 1890 he inaugurated the new procedure in and reorganised the Patents Office, and in March 1891 he also undertook the cognate subject of trademarks under the new legislation then introduced. Webb published in 1872 a successful work on the Imperial law in force in the colony. In 1874 he assisted Mr. J. B. Box in preparing and editing[2] the "Compendium of the Imperial Law and Statutes in Force in the Colony of Victoria"[1] and in 1884 he himself prepared and edited a supplementary volume. Webb was Dr. Ream's principal assistant in the preparation of the former's monumental code.[2]
Webb was commissioner of taxes (1895) and registrar of land tax (1903); in 1901 he was president of the Old Melburnians' Society.[1]
Webb married, on 29 July 1876, Kate, third daughter of Hon. John T. Smith.[2] Webb died on 22 November 1916 of heart disease, he was survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. He was buried in the Anglican section of Melbourne General Cemetery.[1]
Plaka (Greek: Πλάκα) is a village in the municipality of Megalopoli, Arcadia, Greece. It is 1 km south of Soulos, 3 km northeast of Thoknia, 3 km southwest of Nea Ekklisoula and 4 km northwest of Megalopoli. The Greek National Road 76 (Megalopoli - Andritsaina - Krestena) passes east of the village. The Megalopoli Power Plant is located to the south and a large open-pit lignite mine is to the west.
Kamisato (上里町, Kamisato-machi) is a town located in Saitama Prefecture, Japan. As of 1 March 2021[update], the town had an estimated population of 30,836 in 13,055 households and a population density of 1100 persons per km².[1] The total area of the town is 29.18 square kilometres (11.27 sq mi).
Kamisato is located on the extreme northwestern border of Saitama Prefecture, separated from Gunma Prefecture by the Kanna River, and isolated from the remainder of Saitama by the Chichibu Mountains.
Kamisato has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen Cfa) characterized by warm summers and cool winters with light to no snowfall.  The average annual temperature in Kamisato is 12.6 °C. The average annual rainfall is 1532 mm with September as the wettest month. The temperatures are highest on average in August, at around 24.0 °C, and lowest in January, at around 1.3 °C.[2]
Per Japanese census data,[3] the population of Kamisato has recently plateaued after a long period of growth.
The area of Kamisato was part of ancient Musashi Province. The villages of Jimbohara, Kami, Shichihongi and Nagahata were created within Kodama District with the establishment of the modern municipalities system on April 1, 1889. Kamisato village was created on May 3, 1954 by the merger of these four villages. Kamisato was elevated to town status on November 3, 1971.
Kamisato has a mayor-council form of government with a directly elected mayor and a unicameral town council of 14 members. Kamisato, together with the city of Honjō and town of Kamikawa, contributes two members to the Saitama Prefectural Assembly. In terms of national politics, the town is part of Saitama 11th district of the lower house of the Diet of Japan.
Kamisato has a large industrial park in the southeastern corner; however, many people commute to neighboring Takasaki or Fujioka.
Kamisato has five public elementary schools and two public middle schools operated by the town government. The town does not have a high school.
There is also an international school, the Instituto Educacional TS Recreação Brazilian school.[4]
 JR East – Takasaki Line
 Media related to Kamisato, Saitama at Wikimedia Commons
Godfrey House and Barn Complex is a historic home and barn complex located at Lima in Livingston County, New York. The farmhouse was built in about 1853 and is a two-story, three bay wide by three bay deep, frame Italianate style dwelling.  In addition to the farmhouse, there are four contributing buildings and two structures dating from the 1850s to the 1930s.  They include two barns, a milk house, a chicken house, garage, and a silo.[2]
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1989.[1]

This article about a historic property or district in Livingston County, New York, that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kongsi is a 2011 Malaysian Malay-language action comedy film written by Farid Kamil and Fadzil Zahari. The film starring Shaheizy Sam, Fizo Omar and Yana Samsudin, tells of a murderer called Tumulak, who came to Malaysia to curb the Malaysian secret societies and relationships Tumulak with ASP Shariff. The movie was aired on May 12, 2011 and has created a record by recording a RM 1.1 million collection within 1 day of the show.[2]
Tumulak, a murderer sent by his employer, Kimpedu, to curb the secret societies in Malaysia, especially in Kuala Lumpur. At that time, Kuala Lumpur was dominated by three secret societies, each led by Pak Maliki (leader of the Malay secret societies), Jimmy (leader of the Chinese secret societies) and Victor (chief secretary of India). Among the disruptions caused by Tumulak include killing the subordinates of Pak Maliki and Victor's son. This has attracted ASP Shariff's attention to investigate what happened.
Having opened in 87 cinemas across Malaysia,[1] The movie Kongsi has created history with successfully earning RM 1.08 million in one day.[3] In the first week alone, the film managed to garner a collection of nearly RM7 million,[4] As of June 15, 2011, about a month after the start of the show, Kongsi film scored RM 8.09 million.[1]
Jaggayyapeta mandal is one of the 20 mandals in NTR district of the state of Andhra Pradesh in India. It is under the administration of Nandigama revenue division and the headquarters are located at Jaggayyapeta town.[2][3] Krishna River flows through the mandal and is bounded by Penuganchiprolu, Nandigama, Chandarlapadu mandals of Krishna district, some part of Guntur district, Nalgonda and Khammam districts of Telangana.[4]
As of 2011[update] census, the mandal has 18 settlements. It includes 1 town and 24 villages.[2]
The settlements in the mandal are listed below:
Note: (CT)-Census town[5]

This article about a location in Andhra Pradesh is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The shortlisted nominees for the 2012 Governor General's Awards for Literary Merit were announced on October 11, and the winners were announced on November 13.
Katerina Joanna Kechris is an American statistician, a professor of biostatistics and informatics in the Colorado School of Public Health, and a regional president of the International Biometric Society. Her research focuses on the use of omics data to study relations between genetics and disease.[1]
Kechris graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles in 1997,
and completed a Ph.D. in statistics at the University of California, Berkeley in 2003.[2] Her dissertation, supervised by Peter J. Bickel, was Statistical Methods for Discovering Features in Molecular Sequences.[3] Before joining the Colorado School of Public Health, she did postdoctoral research with Hao Li at the University of California, San Francisco.[4]
Kechris was elected regional president for the Western North American Region of the International Biometric Society for 2019.[5]
She was selected to become a Fellow of the American Statistical Association in 2019, "for contributions to high-dimensional biological data analysis, team science and training and mentoring of students". [6][7] She served as Section Chair for the ASA Section on Statistics and Genomics and Genetics in 2021.
Daniella Kolodny is the first female rabbi enlisted in the United States Naval Academy, which she joined in 2004.[1][2] She was ordained by the Jewish Theological Seminary that year.[1]
In 2010 the Conservative Rabbinical Assembly appointed Kolodny as its Community Development Coordinator.
She was born in Jerusalem but raised in Maryland, and earned a degree in international relations from the Pardee School of Global Studies at  Boston University, as well as master's degrees in public administration and Jewish communally service from Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Los Angeles.[3]
Clarias brachysoma (walking catfish) is a species of fish in the family Clariidae. It is endemic to Sri Lanka. Its natural habitats are rain forest streams and lowland rivers. It is threatened by habitat loss.[1]
It grows to a length of 40 cm. During mating season, spawning occurs in nests among weeds in very shallow water. Then the male guards the nest and young until reaching about 1 cm in length.[1]

This Clariidae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Aurora is the second full-length album released by Nico Touches the Walls in Japan on November 25, 2009, through Ki/oon Records. The album features all three songs from their previous singles: "Kakera -Subete no Omoitachi he- ", "Big Foot" and including the opening song to Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, "Hologram".

This article about a Japanese album is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Rokitnica-Kąty [rɔkitˈnit͡sa ˈkɔntɨ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sadkowice, within Rawa County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland.[1] It lies approximately 5 kilometres (3 mi) south of Sadkowice, 21 km (13 mi) south-east of Rawa Mazowiecka, and 74 km (46 mi) east of the regional capital Łódź.

This Rawa County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The voiced palatal approximant, or yod, is a type of consonant used in many spoken languages. The symbol in the International Phonetic Alphabet that represents this sound is ⟨j⟩. The equivalent X-SAMPA symbol is j, and in the Americanist phonetic notation it is ⟨y⟩. Because the English name of the letter J, jay, starts with [d͡ʒ] (voiced palato-alveolar affricate), the approximant is sometimes instead called yod (jod), as in the phonological history terms yod-dropping and yod-coalescence.
The palatal approximant can often be considered the semivocalic equivalent of the close front unrounded vowel [i]. They alternate with each other in certain languages, such as French, and in the diphthongs of some languages as ⟨j⟩ and ⟨i̯⟩, with the non-syllabic diacritic used in different phonetic transcription systems to represent the same sound.
A voiced alveolo-palatal approximant is attested as phonemic in the Huastec language,[1][2][3][4][5][6][7] and is represented as an advanced voiced palatal approximant ⟨j̟⟩,[8][3] in some fonts, the sum symbol can be seen next to the letter as [j˖].
Some languages, however, have a palatal approximant that is unspecified for rounding and so cannot be considered the semivocalic equivalent of either [i] or its rounded counterpart, [y], which would normally correspond to [ɥ]. An example is Spanish, which distinguishes two palatal approximants: an approximant semivowel [j], which is always unrounded, and an approximant consonant unspecified for rounding, [ʝ̞]. Eugenio Martínez Celdrán describes the difference between them as follows (with audio examples added):[9]
[j] is shorter and is usually a merely transitory sound. It can only exist together with a full vowel and does not appear in syllable onset. [On the other hand,] [ʝ̞] has a lower amplitude, mainly in F2. It can only appear in syllable onset. It is not noisy either articulatorily or perceptually. [ʝ̞] can vary towards [ʝ] in emphatic pronunciations, having noise (turbulent airstream). (...)
There is a further argument through which we can establish a clear difference between [j] and [ʝ̞]: the first sound cannot be rounded, not even through co-articulation, whereas the second one is rounded before back vowels or the back semi-vowel. Thus, in words like viuda [ˈbjuða]ⓘ 'widow', Dios [ˈdjos]ⓘ 'God', vio [ˈbjo]ⓘ 's/he saw', etc., the semi-vowel [j] is unrounded; if it were rounded, a sound that does not exist in Spanish, [ɥ], would appear. On the other hand, [ʝ̞] is unspecified as far as rounding is concerned and it is assimilated to the labial vowel context: rounded with rounded vowels, e.g. ayuda [aˈʝ̞ʷuð̞a]ⓘ 'help', coyote [koˈʝ̞ʷote]ⓘ 'coyote', hoyuelo [oˈʝ̞ʷwelo]ⓘ 'dimple', etc., and unrounded with unrounded vowels: payaso [paˈʝ̞aso]ⓘ 'clown', ayer [aˈʝ̞eɾ]ⓘ 'yesterday'.He also considers that "the IPA shows a lack of precision in the treatment it gives to approximants, if we take into account our understanding of the phonetics of Spanish. [ʝ̞] and [j] are two different segments, but they have to be labelled as voiced palatal approximant consonants. I think that the former is a real consonant, whereas the latter is a semi-consonant, as it has traditionally been called in Spanish, or a semi-vowel, if preferred. The IPA, though, classifies it as a consonant."[10]
There is a parallel problem with transcribing the voiced velar approximant.
The symbol ⟨ʝ̞⟩ may not display properly in all browsers. In that case, ⟨ʝ˕⟩ should be substituted.
In the writing systems used for most languages in Central, Northern, and Eastern Europe, the letter j denotes the palatal approximant, as in German Jahr 'year', which is followed by IPA. Although it may be seen as counterintuitive for English-speakers, there are a few words with that orthographical spelling in certain loanwords in English like Hebrew "hallelujah" and German "Jägermeister".
In grammars of Ancient Greek, the palatal approximant, which was lost early in the history of Greek, is sometimes written as ⟨ι̯⟩, an iota with the inverted breve below, which is the nonsyllabic diacritic or marker of a semivowel.[11]
There is also the post-palatal approximant[12] in some languages, which is articulated slightly more back than the place of articulation of the prototypical palatal approximant but less far back than the prototypical velar approximant. It can be considered the semivocalic equivalent of the close central unrounded vowel [ɨ]The International Phonetic Alphabet does not have a separate symbol for that sound, but it can be transcribed as ⟨j̠⟩, ⟨j˗⟩ (both symbols denote a retracted ⟨j⟩), ⟨ɰ̟⟩ or ⟨ɰ˖⟩ (both symbols denote an advanced ⟨ɰ⟩). The equivalent X-SAMPA symbols are j_- and M\_+, respectively. Other possible transcriptions include a centralized ⟨j⟩ (⟨j̈⟩ in the IPA, j_" in X-SAMPA), a centralized ⟨ɰ⟩ (⟨ɰ̈⟩ in the IPA, M\_" in X-SAMPA) and a non-syllabic ⟨ɨ⟩ (⟨ɨ̯⟩ in the IPA, 1_^ in X-SAMPA).
For the reasons mentioned above and in the article velar approximant, none of those symbols are appropriate for languages such as Spanish, whose post-palatal approximant consonant (not a semivowel) appears as an allophone of /ɡ/ before front vowels and is best transcribed ⟨ʝ̞˗⟩, ⟨ʝ˕˗⟩ (both symbols denote a lowered and retracted ⟨ʝ⟩), ⟨ɣ̞˖⟩ or ⟨ɣ˕˖⟩ (both symbols denote a lowered and advanced ⟨ɣ⟩). The equivalent X-SAMPA symbols are j\_o_- and G_o_+.
Especially in broad transcription, the post-palatal approximant may be transcribed as a palatalized velar approximant (⟨ɰʲ⟩, ⟨ɣ̞ʲ⟩ or ⟨ɣ˕ʲ⟩ in the IPA, M\', M\_j, G'_o or G_o_j in X-SAMPA).
A voiced alveolar-palatal approximant is attested as phonemic in the Huastec language.
Features of the voiced palatal approximant:
Symbols to the right in a cell are voiced, to the left are voiceless. Shaded areas denote articulations judged impossible.
Legend: unrounded • rounded
Brooklyn Steel is a music venue in Brooklyn, New York which opened in 2017. 
Rolling Stone named Brooklyn Steel one of the 10 best live music venues in America.[1]
The name of the venue was inspired by the fact that the building was originally used as a steel manufacturing plant. Much of the steel from the original building was repurposed for the venue.[2][3] The venue contains a main floor, a balcony, forty restrooms,[4] and three bars. 
Construction for the venue began in July 2016, and it opened on April 6, 2017, with a five-night run of sold-out concerts by American rock band LCD Soundsystem.[5] On June 22, 2017, LCD Soundsystem became the first artist to play 10 shows at Brooklyn Steel.[6]
Wild Nothing was the first artist to release a live album recorded at the venue; the band's November 2018 show was recorded as the Live at Brooklyn Steel album, released on September 27, 2019.[7]
LCD Soundsystem announced a 20-show residency at Brooklyn Steel from November 23 to December 21, 2021.[8] It was the band's first concerts since 2018.[9] However, the final three shows were canceled on December 19 because of rising COVID-19 cases in New York City as a result of the Omicron variant.[10] The band initially did not want to cancel the concerts because nearly half of the tickets were bought by people outside of New York City who travelled to see them, but said they would if enough people canceled their tickets on AXS for a refund.[11]
LCD Soundsystem announced another 20-show Brooklyn Steel residency in 2022, from November 18 to December 17, with priority given to those who canceled their 2021 tickets because of the Omicron variant.[12][13] In 2023, LCD Soundsystem played a 12-show New York City residency in November and December as the "Tri Boro Tour", of which four of those concerts were held at Brooklyn Steel.[14]
Pavement played four consecutive nights at Brooklyn Steel from September 11–14, 2023.[15]
Car Seat Headrest released the live album Faces from the Masquerade on December 8, 2023, a double album consisting of footage from three consecutive sold-out Brooklyn Steel shows that the band played in March 2022.[16]
At opening, the venue was "easy to see…quickly becoming yet another Williamsburg cultural beacon".[17] Media also compared the venue to Manhattan's Terminal 5, which is also operated by The Bowery Presents. Both venues are "effectively one big tall box" and Terminal 5 appeared to serve as a guide for Brooklyn Steel's construction.[18]
Since the venue's opening in April 2017, musical acts have performed at the venue including Tiffany Young, Maren Morris, LCD Soundsystem, PJ Harvey, Laura Marling, Goldfrapp, Two Door Cinema Club, Regina Spektor, Catfish and the Bottlemen, Marian Hill, Pixies, Godspeed You! Black Emperor, Ween, Perfume Genius, the Decemberists, Nao, SOPHIE, Animal Collective, Sunn O))), Franz Ferdinand, PUP, Wilco, MIKA, Theo Katzman, Weyes Blood, Chlöe and Arctic Monkeys.[19]
40°43′10″N 73°56′20″W﻿ / ﻿40.719366°N 73.938783°W﻿ / 40.719366; -73.938783
The Edgard–Reserve Ferry was a ferry across the Mississippi River in the U.S. state of Louisiana, connecting Edgard and Reserve.[1] The ferry was one of three routes then operated by the Louisiana Department of Highways, District 2. The others were the vehicle Luling–Destrehan Ferry and the pedestrian Taft–Norco Ferry. The ferry ceased operation on July 31, 2013.[2]
30°02′56″N 90°33′18″W﻿ / ﻿30.049°N 90.555°W﻿ / 30.049; -90.555
This article about transportation in Louisiana is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This ferry article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Sermon of Piotr Skarga[1] or Skarga's Sermon (Polish: Kazanie Skargi) is a large oil painting by Jan Matejko, finished in 1864, now in the National Museum, Warsaw in Poland. It depicts a sermon on political matters by the Jesuit priest Piotr Skarga, a chief figure of the Counter Reformation in Poland, where he rebukes the Polish elite for neglecting the national interest.[2]
Skarga's Sermon is among Matejko's most famous works,[3] and like other historical paintings by Matejko includes several portraits of identifiable historical figures of the period, as well as in this case a self-portrait of the artist in the figure of Skarga.
Matejko finished the painting in May 1864.[4] It was the first "large" painting of Matejko (the canvas had the size of over 8 square metres (86 sq ft), several times larger than any of his prior work).[4] It was displayed in the gallery of the Kraków Society of Friends of Fine Art (Towarzystwo Przyjaciół Sztuk Pięknych w Krakowie).[4] Painting's premiere drew crowds and reviews comparable with modern movie premieres.[5] Soon afterwards Count Maurycy Potocki bought it for 10,000 florins.[6]
The painting shows Poland of the early 17th century, a country torn between the magnates and elected kings of the House of Vasa, with a proud and egoistical nobility, beginning a slide into an ungovernable anarchy. In that context, little heed was paid to the calls of many individuals (such as Skarga) for reform.[2] Matejko's work became one of the major elements of the "legend of Piotr Skarga", helping the Jesuit achieve a lasting fame in Poland.[7][8] Although Matejko's work fits within the genre of historical painting, with the Sermon... he departed from strict adherence to historical accuracy, focusing more on the message; thus this painting, like many of his subsequent works, included characters or items that could not have been present at the depicted scene.[2][9]
The painting portrays Piotr Skarga, a Jesuit, giving a sermon in the presbytery of the Wawel Cathedral. He is visible at the top right, clad in black, with his hands raised, paused in the middle of the speech.[2] His face is that of Matejko himself, if significantly aged[2] (another source, however, suggests that Matejko asked Michał Szweycer to pose for Skarga instead[10]). Skarga is the only animated character in the composition, all other individuals are shown as immobile, standing or sitting.[9] The title of the painting suggests that the theme of Skarga's speech is his famous critique of the Polish government and a prophecy of its destruction.[2] In reality, however, there is no proof that Skarga's work was ever delivered in the form of a real sermon.[2][7][11]
Various historical figures, listening to the sermon, react to it through posture and facial expressions in a manner that suggest Matejko's view of their historical role.[2][9] In the center, magnates Janusz Radziwiłł (1579-1620) (in a golden robe), Stanisław Stadnicki, Mikołaj Zebrzydowski, stand together, arrogant and unfazed.[2] Jerzy Mniszech, Jan Piotr Sapieha and Janusz Zbaraski[nb 1] to their right seem to be listening, but an older nobleman is dozing nearby as a reminder that most nobility did not care either way about the issues Skarga is discussing.[2] To their left, the king, Sigismund III Vasa, seems not to be paying too much attention to the preacher. His foreign garb stresses his unwillingness to integrate with his subjects; he always considered himself more of a Swede than a Pole, and would have preferred to be a king of Sweden instead.[2] Sigismund is portrayed by Matejko as the second most important character in the painting, as he is also illuminated by light, albeit immobile, compared to Skarga.[9] Sigismund's son, prince and future king Władysław IV Waza, stands above and to the left of the king.[2] To his right, two women - Queen Anna Jagiellonka and Halszka Ostrogska are present.[2] A glove on the floor between the king and the magnates is a sign of the upcoming civil war.[2]
At the top left, chancellor Jan Zamoyski listens, tired. This ambitious and successful politician and military commander seems to understand the gravity of Skarga's words, but he is near the end of his life.[2] Mikołaj Wolski is visible between the prince and the chancellor.[2] Underneath Zamoyski, archbishop Stanisław Karnkowski in purple is praying, and between these two the metropolitan of the Unites, Hipacy Pociej,  is visibly not taken by the Jesuit's oratory.[2]
The Papal nuncio Germanicus Malaspina, bishop of San Severo, is visible at Skarga's bottom right. Cardinal Enrico Caetani (in red) is shown below Skarga, and Spanish and Austrian envoys, bored and distanced, are behind him.[2]
On 5 November 1864, in recognition for his contributions to recreating historical themes as exemplified in this painting, Matejko was elected a member of the Kraków Scientific Society (Towarzystwo Naukowe Krakowskie).[14] This painting was the one that made Matejko famous not only in (partitioned) Poland, but beyond, in Europe.[2] In 1865 the painting was awarded a gold medal at the annual Paris salon.[6] Parisian critics reviewed the work of 26-year-old Matejko very positively, comparing it favorably to the work of Paul Delaroche and Louis Gallait, although many considered the theme of Polish history rather obscure, and some argued that the painting was too dark (too much blacks and violets).[4]
The painting has been compared to Jan August Hendrik Leys's Restoration of the Catholic rite in the Holiest Virgin Mary Church in Antwerp in 1566, as regards its composition and Counter Reformation theme.[9]
Off Centre  is the sixth studio album by Irish singer-songwriter Gilbert O'Sullivan. It was produced by Gus Dudgeon and originally released in October 1980. Union Square Music re-released it August 2012 on Salvo label in part of the Gilbert O'Sullivan - A Singer & His Songs collection.
The lead single from the album, "What's In a Kiss", was O'Sullivan's first top 20 hit in the UK in over five years, peaking at number 19. The song proved to be his final top 20 single in the UK.
All songs written by Gilbert O'Sullivan.
Broxburn is a hamlet consisting of a handful of scattered houses which serve the Broxmouth estate in East Lothian, Scotland. It is named after the stream upon which it stands, the Brox Burn. It lies about 1.5 miles (2.4 km) south-east of Dunbar. On the Brox Burn is Brand's Mill, dating from mediaeval times. The Battle of Dunbar, on 3 September 1650, took place on the foothills directly south, halfway between Brand's Mill and the hamlet of Little Pinkerton.
Not to be confused with the larger town of Broxburn, West Lothian.

This East Lothian article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Safety Assessment of Foreign Aircraft Programme (SAFA Programme) is a programme established by the European Civil Aviation Conference (ECAC). Within the SAFA programme, ramp inspections made by the regulatory authorities in the member states have a common format.
According to the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA), if an inspection identifies significant irregularities, these will be taken up with the operator and the oversight authority. The inspectors in each member state can demand corrective action before allowing the aircraft to leave if the irregularities have an immediate impact on safety.
Data reported by the inspectors in each member state is stored centrally in a computerized database set up by the JAA. The database also holds supplementary information, for example lists of actions carried out by the air carrier after the inspections. Furthermore, the information in the database is reviewed and analyzed by the JAA regularly, and the member states are informed of any potential safety hazards which have been identified.
However, SAFA inspections only regarded as on-the-spot assessments and the organization stresses that inspections are not a substitute for proper regulatory oversight (which is required under the Chicago Convention) and are not a guarantee for the airworthiness of a particular aircraft.
From 2006, SAFA Programme is under the responsibility of the European Commission, supported by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), regulated by different directives and regulations.
ECAC member states include the following 42 states:
Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Georgia, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom.
Thiruvakkudi  is a village in the  
Arimalamrevenue block of Pudukkottai district 
,[1] Tamil Nadu, India.


This article related to a location in Pudukkottai district, Tamil Nadu, India is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Gianni Francesco Mattioli (born 29 January 1940 in Genoa) is an Italian politician and university professor.
Mattioli graduated with a def in physics in 1964 with a thesis on the diffusion of high energy particles. In 1973 he became a professor of the same subject at La Sapienza University of Rome, conducting research in the field of quantum mechanics and rational mechanics.[1]
In 1978, Mattioli founded the "Committee for the Control of Energy Choices", together with Massimo Scalia. He began his anti-nuclear commitment in the International Fellowship of Reconciliation in Rome. In 1981, he founded the magazine Quale energia?, of which he was director for six years.
In 1987, Mattioli was elected deputy among the ranks of the Greens, of which he was also president from 1988 to 1992. He was re-elected deputy also in 1992, 1994 and 1996. In 1996, he was appointed undersecretary of public works in the first Prodi government; in those years, he joined the executive committee of Legambiente. From 2000 to 2001, he also served as Minister of Community Policies in the Amato II Cabinet, after his party colleague, Edo Ronchi, refused this post.
On 20 December 2009, Mattioli joined the national coordination of Left Ecology Freedom, of which he later became responsible for environmental policies.
In metaphysics, impenetrability is the name given to that quality of matter whereby two bodies cannot occupy the same space at the same time. The philosopher John Toland argued that impenetrability and extension were sufficient to define matter, a contention strongly disputed by Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz.
Locke considered impenetrability to be "more a consequence of solidity, than solidity itself."[1]

This article about metaphysics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Otto Henri Bærentzen (31 May 1868 – 20 May 1943) was a Danish fencer.[1] He competed at the 1920 and 1928 Summer Olympics.[2]
He is the father of fellow fencers Margot Bærentzen and Kim Bærentzen.[3]

This biographical article related to fencing in Denmark is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Count Aldo Maria Brachetti-Peretti  (born in Fermo on September 18, 1932), from a prominent family of the Marche, is chairman of the Italian company, API Group.
He took his degree in economics[1][2] and began working at API in 1957, while teaching economics and banking at the Universities of Rome and Parma.[3] In 1965 he joined the board of directors and, in 1974, he was appointed Executive Vice-President and CEO of API.[1] In 1977, he was appointed President and CEO.
In 1978 he received the honor of "Cavaliere del Lavoro" from the President of Italy.[1][2]
On October 6, 2009 he received an honorary degree in Engineering.[4]
Presently he is Chairman of API Holding S.p.A. and of the Unione Petrolifera and one of the most important producers of Bordeaux wines in Europe, with his own vineyard called “Il Pollenza”.[5][6]
He is the father of Ugo Brachetti Peretti and Ferdinando Brachetti Peretti.
Angga railway station  is a station on the Chinese Qingzang Railway.


This Tibet-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Parnell is a city in Iowa County, Iowa, United States. The population was 194 at the time of the 2020 census.[2]
Parnell, in Fillmore Township, Iowa County, Iowa, was named after Charles Stewart Parnell, a noble Irish statesman who had come to the American people to plead the cause of Ireland's land-impoverished peasants.
The Milwaukee Railroad helped to create Parnell. In 1884, the people of the little Irish town of Lytle City moved residences, stores, buildings, and families three miles west to where the railroad was beginning.
The people of Lytle City, who were mostly members of the Catholic Church, then became residents of Parnell. The town was incorporated on March 24, 1891, with a population of 156.
The early businesses consisted of a hardware store, grocery store, a drug store, a foundry and blacksmith, a newspaper office, hotel, a livery stable, tavern, dry goods store, millinery shop, a photographer, opera house, and a bank.
Catholic church services began in the fall of 1888. St. Joseph's Catholic Church was erected the next year. The Rev. James Davis was its first pastor. This was the largest Catholic Church in the county; and the only church in Parnell until March 16, 1958, when the Parnell Mennonite Church became an organized congregation. The St. Joseph's Cemetery was established in 1892 east of town. Due to deteriorating conditions, the church was torn down on April 27, 2010.
The Parnell school district was first known as Locust Grove Independent district. The school house was one mile east of town for the first two years. In order to accommodate the pupils in town and in the western part of the district, school was held in a store building in Parnell in the winter of 1888–1889. Birdie Costello and W.J. Naughton were the first teachers. In 1889, a new one-room building was erected; and later in 1899, a four-room brick structure was built. The school became a high school in 1899. In 1907, it adopted the eleventh grade course; and in 1915, it was raised to twelfth grade. In 1916, the Parnell Consolidated School was open-ed, becoming Parnell's first public school. The Sisters of Humility were transferred to this school, which until 1955, was one of the few public schools in the state to utilize Roman Catholic nuns as instructors.
Early families of Parnell included the Shuells, Murphys, Hannons, Tiernans, Kellys, McDonalds, Dwyers, Callans, Eagletons, Lawlers, Tourneys, McCunes, Mullinex', Naughtons, Quinns, Sheridans, Mastersons, Ryans, Leahys, Murrins, Coakleys, Carneys, Sullivans and Weldons.
In 1985, businesses included Weldon's DX, Shamrock Cafe, Royal Beauty Salon, Parnell Sandwich & Cone Shoppe, Parnell Tavern, Parnell Post Office, Central Midwest Petroleum, Parnell Cycle Shop, and Johnny O's Car Wash.
The St. Michael's Church, Cemetery, Rectory and Ancient Order of Hibernians Hall, located four miles to the east in the hamlet of Holbrook was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 1983.[3]
Parnell is located at 41°35′1″N 92°0′18″W﻿ / ﻿41.58361°N 92.00500°W﻿ / 41.58361; -92.00500 (41.583477, -92.004930).[4]
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 0.17 square miles (0.44 km2), all land.[5]
As of the census[7] of 2010, there were 193 people, 87 households, and 43 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,135.3 inhabitants per square mile (438.3/km2). There were 100 housing units at an average density of 588.2 per square mile (227.1/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 97.4% White, 2.1% Native American, and 0.5% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.5% of the population.
There were 87 households, of which 26.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.2% were married couples living together, 6.9% had a female householder with no husband present, 2.3% had a male householder with no wife present, and 50.6% were non-families. 41.4% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.22 and the average family size was 3.14.
The median age in the city was 41.7 years. 25.4% of residents were under the age of 18; 8.3% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 23.3% were from 25 to 44; 34.2% were from 45 to 64; and 8.8% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 51.8% male and 48.2% female.
As of the census[8] of 2000, there were 220 people, 91 households, and 52 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,267.8 inhabitants per square mile (489.5/km2). There were 103 housing units at an average density of 593.6 per square mile (229.2/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 100.00% White. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.45% of the population.
There were 91 households, out of which 36.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.2% were married couples living together, 8.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 41.8% were non-families. 34.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 16.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.42 and the average family size was 3.26.
In the city, the population was spread out, with 30.9% under the age of 18, 7.3% from 18 to 24, 27.7% from 25 to 44, 19.1% from 45 to 64, and 15.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 34 years. For every 100 females, there were 93.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 92.4 males.
The median income for a household in the city was $36,667, and the median income for a family was $47,500. Males had a median income of $27,059 versus $22,500 for females. The per capita income for the city was $19,293. About 3.8% of families and 6.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 7.8% of those under the age of eighteen and 2.9% of those 65 or over.
Dukwi is a village in Central District of Botswana. It is located along the road connecting Francistown to Nata. The population was 3,438 in 2011 census.[1]
20°35′15″S 26°32′3″E﻿ / ﻿20.58750°S 26.53417°E﻿ / -20.58750; 26.53417

This Botswana location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Thomas de Leu or Leeuw or Le Leup or Deleu (1560–1612)[1] was a French engraver, publisher, and print dealer of Flemish origin.[2][3]
He was the son of a print dealer in Oudenaarde and began his career in Antwerp, where he worked for Jean Ditmar (c. 1538–1603)[2] and was influenced by the Wierix.[4]
Sometime after 1576 and before 1580 he went to Paris[5] to work for the painter and engraver Jean Rabel (1540/50–1603).[2]
On 22 August 1583 he married Marie Caron, daughter of Antoine Caron,[3] one of the principal painters of the Second School of Fontainebleau. Although it has been stated that he was thereby the brother-in-law of the engraver Léonard Gaultier, this is probably not the case.[6]
In the Wars of Religion he managed to switch from the side of the Catholic League to that of Henry IV. As a result, he became enormously wealthy, running a highly productive workshop and publishing numerous prints by other artists. His apprentices included Jacques Honnervogt (fl 1608–1635) and Melchior Tavernier.[2]
On 22 May 1605 he married Charlotte Bothereau.[3] His daughter Charlotte married Claude Vignon.[7] He died in Paris.[2]
His first dated engraving is Justice (1579; Linzeler no. 57).[2] He produced more than 300 plates of portraiture, including ones of Catherine de' Medici (Linzeler no. 255) and Sir Francis Drake, and many engravings on religious subjects, such as Christ in Blessing (1598; Linzeler no. 7)[2] and a set of 25 plates depicting The Life of Saint Francis.[4] He also provided illustrations for books.[2]
Utharomyces is a fungal genus in the family Pilobolaceae. The genus is monotypic, containing the single coprophilous (dung-loving) species Utharomyces epallocaulus, which is widely distributed in subtropical regions.[1] Utharomyces was circumscribed by the Dutch botanist Karel Bernard Boedijn in 1958.[2] U. epallocaulus has been collected in Bahamas, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Mexico, China, and the United States.[3]

This Zygomycota-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Hyūga (Japanese: 日向) was the second and last Ise-class battleship built for the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during the 1910s. Although completed in 1918, she played no role in World War I. Hyūga supported Japanese forces in the early 1920s during the Siberian intervention in the Russian Civil War. In 1923, she assisted survivors of the Great Kantō earthquake. The ship was partially modernised in two stages in 1927–1928 and 1931–1932, during which her forward superstructure was rebuilt in the pagoda mast style. Hyūga was reconstructed in 1934–1936, improvements being made to her armour and propulsion machinery. Afterwards, she played a minor role in the Second Sino-Japanese War.
Despite the expensive reconstruction, the ship was considered obsolete by the eve of the Pacific War, and did not see significant action in the early years of the war. After the loss of most of the IJN's large aircraft carriers during the Battle of Midway in mid-1942, she was rebuilt with a flight deck replacing the rear pair of gun turrets to give her the ability to operate an air group of floatplanes; lack of aircraft and qualified pilots meant that Hyūga never operated her aircraft in combat. She participated in the Battle off Cape Engaño in late 1944, where she helped to decoy the American carrier fleet supporting the invasion of Leyte away from the landing beaches. Afterwards, the ship was transferred to Southeast Asia, occasionally serving as a flagship. In early 1945, Hyūga participated in Operation Kita, during which she transported petrol and other strategic materials back to Japan. The ship was then reduced to reserve until she was sunk during American airstrikes in July. After the war, Hyūga was scrapped in 1946–1947.
The Ise class was designed as an improved version of the preceding Fusō class. The ships had a length of 208.18 metres (683 ft) overall, a beam of 28.65 metres (94 ft) and a draught of 8.93 metres (29 ft 4 in) at deep load.[1] They displaced 29,980 long tons (30,460 t) at standard load and 36,500 long tons (37,100 t) at deep load, roughly 650 long tons (660 t) more than the earlier ships. Their crew consisted of 1,360 officers and ratings.[2]
During the ships' modernisation in the 1930s, their forward superstructure was enlarged with multiple platforms added to their tripod masts to create a pagoda mast. Both ships were also given torpedo bulges to improve their underwater protection and to compensate for the weight of the extra armour. These changes increased their overall length to 215.8 metres (708 ft),[3] their beam to 31.75 metres (104 ft 2 in) and their draught to 9.45 metres (31 ft). Their displacement increased over 5,000 long tons (5,100 t) to 42,001 long tons (42,675 t) at deep load.[4] The crew now numbered 1,376 officers and enlisted men.[2]
The Ise-class ships had two sets of direct-drive steam turbines, each of which drove two propeller shafts, using steam provided by 24 Kampon Ro Gō water-tube boilers. The turbines were designed to produce a total of 45,000 shaft horsepower (34,000 kW) and give the ships a speed of 23 knots (43 km/h; 26 mph). Hyūga reached 24 knots (44 km/h; 28 mph) from 63,211 shp (47,136 kW) during her sea trials.[5] Each of the boilers consumed a mixture of coal and oil, and the ships carried enough of both to give them a range of 9,680 nautical miles (17,930 km; 11,140 mi) at a speed of 14 knots (26 km/h; 16 mph).[2]
During their 1930s modernisation, the boilers on each ship were replaced by eight new Kampon oil-fired boilers.[2] The turbines were replaced by four geared Kampon turbines with a designed output of 80,000 shp (60,000 kW) intended to increase their speed to 24.5 knots (45.4 km/h; 28.2 mph).[1] The fuel storage of the ships was increased which gave them a range of 7,870 nautical miles (14,580 km; 9,060 mi) at 16 knots (30 km/h; 18 mph), despite the additional weight.[2]
The twelve 35.6-centimetre (14 in) Type 41 guns of the Ise class were mounted in three pairs of twin-gun, superfiring turrets that were numbered one through six from front to rear. The first pair was forward of the main superstructure, the second pair was amidships, and the last ones were aft of the rear superstructure.[6] The ships' secondary armament consisted of twenty 14-centimetre (5.5 in) Type 3 guns in single mounts. Eighteen of these were mounted in casemates in the forecastle and superstructure and the remaining pair were mounted on the deck above them and protected by gun shields.[7][Note 1] Anti-aircraft defence was provided by four 40-calibre 3rd Year Type 8-centimetre (3 in)[Note 2] anti-aircraft (AA) guns in single mounts. The ships were also fitted with six submerged 53.3-centimetre (21.0 in) torpedo tubes, three on each broadside.[10]
In 1931–1933 the AA guns were replaced with eight 12.7-centimetre (5 in) Type 89 dual-purpose guns, placed beside the forward superstructure in four twin-gun mounts.[11] Two twin-gun mounts for license-built Vickers two-pounder (4-centimetre (1.6 in)) light AA guns were also added while the pair of 14 cm guns on the upper deck were removed.[12]
During the mid-1930s reconstruction, the torpedo tubes were removed, and the Vickers two-pounders were replaced by twenty license-built Hotchkiss 2.5-centimetre (1 in) Type 96 light AA guns in 10 twin-gun mounts.[12] This was the standard Japanese light AA gun during World War II, but it suffered from severe design shortcomings that rendered it a largely ineffective weapon. According to naval historian Mark Stille, the twin and triple mounts "lacked sufficient speed in train or elevation; the gun sights were unable to handle fast targets; the gun exhibited excessive vibration; the magazine was too small, and, finally, the gun produced excessive muzzle blast".[13] During the reconstruction, the forward pair of 14-centimetre guns in the forecastle were removed.[12]
The Ise-class ships' waterline protective belt had a maximum thickness of 299 mm (11.8 in) of Vickers cemented armour amidships; below it was a strake of 100 mm (3.9 in) armour. The upper armoured deck consisted of two layers of high-tensile steel totalling 55 mm (2.2 in) thick and the lower armoured deck also consisted of two layers of high-tensile steel, but only 30 mm (1.2 in) thick in total.[14] The turrets were protected with an armour thickness of 254 mm (10 in) on the face and 76 mm on the roof.[15] The casemate armour was 149 mm (5.9 in) thick and that of the barbettes was 299 mm thick rather than the originally planned 305 mm.[16][Note 3]
Hyūga, named after Hyūga Province, one of the traditional provinces of Japan, was laid down at the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries shipyard in Nagasaki on 6 May 1915 and launched on 27 January 1917.[17] Captain Shigeushi Nakagawa assumed command on 30 April[12] and the ship was completed on that same day, too late for service in World War I.[17] Hyūga was then assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet. Captain Kinzaburo Mimura relieved Nakegawa on 10 November. An explosion in No. 3 gun turret killed 11 crewmen and wounded another 25 during a gunnery exercise on 24 October 1919. Mimura was relieved in his turn by Captain Genjiro Katsuki on 20 November. Hyūga accidentally collided with and sank the schooner Hiromiya Maru, killing two of the sailing ship's crew, on 21 July 1920. On 29 August, the ship began the first of numerous patrols off the Siberian coast and in northern waters in support of Japan's Siberian Intervention against the Bolshevik Red Army. Captain Hidesaburo Ishikawa replaced Katsuki on 20 November and he was replaced by Captain Genji Ide on 20 November 1921.[12]
The ship aided survivors of the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake in September 1923. From the early 1920s through the late 1930s, Hyūga often cruised off the coast of China. Little detailed information is available about her activities during the 1920s. The ship was overhauled in 1927–1928, during which her forward superstructure was enlarged and her aviation facilities improved. Beginning on 27 March 1932, she patrolled off the coast of China after the First Shanghai Incident, together with her sister ship Ise and the battlecruisers Kongo and Kirishima.[12] On 14 June 1932, she was taking part in an exercise off Kyushu near the Mishima Islands in which a group of submarines practiced a mock combined attack on the 1st Battleship Division when the submarine I-4 unexpectedly surfaced in front of her.[18] Hyūga, zigzagging at 12 knots (22 km/h; 14 mph), took evasive action at the last minute and managed to avoid a direct collision with the stationary I-4, although Hyūga suffered minor damage to her hull plating when her bow grazed I-4′s hull.[18]
Beginning on 24 October 1934, Hyūga was drydocked at Kure Naval Arsenal and underwent an extensive reconstruction and modernisation that lasted until 7 September 1936. During the Second Sino-Japanese War, the ship ferried two battalions of the 3rd Sasebo Special Naval Landing Force to Port Arthur, China, on 19 August 1937. She began the first of her patrols off the southern Chinese coast on 15 September that lasted until early 1941. On 30 June 1940 Hyūga served as the flagship for the Emperor of Manchuoko, Henry Pu-yi, during his state visit to Japan. Together with Ise, the ship was transferred to the 2nd Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet on 15 November. Captain Noboru Ishizaki assumed command on 1 September 1941.[12]
When full-scale war started for Japan on 8 December,[Note 4] the division, reinforced by the battleships Nagato and Mutsu and the light carrier Hōshō, sortied from Hashirajima to the Bonin Islands as distant support for the 1st Air Fleet attacking Pearl Harbor, and returned six days later. Captain Chiaki Matsuda relieved Ishizaki on 20 February 1942. Together with the rest of the 2nd Battleship Division, Hyūga pursued but did not catch the American carrier force that had launched the Doolittle Raid on 18 April.[12]
In May 1942 while conducting gunnery practice along with Nagato and Mutsu, the breech of Hyūga's left-hand gun in her No. 5 turret exploded, killing 51 crewmen. The two aft magazines were rapidly flooded to save the ship and she returned to Kure for repairs. The turret was deemed not to be repairable and was removed. A circular plate of armour was welded over the barbette and three triple mounts for 2.5 cm AA guns were installed there. While under repair, the ship was fitted with one of the first experimental Type 22 surface-search radar sets in the IJN, but it was removed shortly afterwards.[12]
Hyūga and the rest of the 2nd Battleship Division set sail on 28 May with the Aleutian Support Group at the same time most of the Imperial Fleet began an attack on Midway Island (Operation MI).[19][20] Commanded by Vice-Admiral Shirō Takasu, the division was composed of Japan's four oldest battleships, including Hyūga, accompanied by two light cruisers, 12 destroyers, and two oilers. Official records do not show the division as part of the larger Midway operation, known as Operation AL; they were to accompany the fleet under Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, but were only to provide support to the Aleutian task force if needed.[21]
The loss of four Japanese aircraft carriers during the Battle of Midway in June severely limited the ability of the IJN to conduct operations and alternatives were sought. Plans for full conversions of battleships into aircraft carriers were rejected on the grounds of expense and, most critically, time, so the IJN settled on removing the rear pair of turrets from the Ise-class ships and replacing them with a flight deck equipped with two rotating catapults.[22] Matsuda was relieved by Captain Sueo Obayashi on 10 December and he was relieved in turn on 1 May 1943, the same day that the conversion officially began. Work actually began two months later.[12] The ship's No. 6 turret and the barbettes for No. 5 and 6 turrets were replaced by a hangar surmounted by a flight deck. This was not long enough to permit the launch of aircraft or their recovery. Two catapults were installed and the existing crane was moved to the flight deck. This was fitted with an extensive system of rails to link each catapult, the storage positions on the deck and the T-shaped aircraft lift that moved aircraft between the flight deck and the hangar. It had a capacity of nine aircraft, with eleven more stowed on deck, and one on each catapult for a total of twenty-two.[23] The ship's air group was intended to consist of a dozen each Yokosuka D4Y Suisei dive bombers (Allied reporting name "Judy"), modified for catapult launching, and Aichi E16A reconnaissance floatplanes (Allied reporting name "Paul"), of which two to three of each were reserves. The former had to land either on a conventional carrier or on land bases, whereas the E16A could be hoisted back aboard using a crane, after landing on the water near the ship.[24]
During the conversion, all of the 14 cm guns were removed and the ship's anti-aircraft suite was heavily reinforced. The eight 12.7 cm Type 89 guns were supplemented with four twin mounts and the existing 2.5 cm Type 96 AA twin-gun mounts were replaced by 19 triple-gun mounts for a total of 57 weapons.[25]
These changes increased the ship's overall length to 219.62 metres (720 ft 6 in) and the removal of the heavy gun turrets and their barbettes reduced her displacement to 39,805 long tons (40,444 t) at deep load, despite the addition of more fuel oil storage. The extra fuel increased Hyūga's range to 9,500 nautical miles (17,600 km; 10,900 mi). The weight reductions decreased her draught to 9.03 metres (29 ft 8 in). The crew now numbered 1,463 officers and enlisted men.[4]
The rebuild was officially completed on 18 November and Captain Tomekichi Nomura assumed command on 5 December as the ship was working up. Hyūga served as a training ship for most of the first half of 1944. On 25 February, Battleship Division 2 was assigned to the direct control of the Combined Fleet. The sisters were then transferred to the Third Fleet and assigned to the newly reformed Fourth Carrier Division on 1 May. That same day the 634th Naval Air Group was formed and assigned to the Fourth Carrier Division. On 24 May, the ship's light anti-aircraft armament was reinforced with 24 additional Type 96 AA guns in eight triple mounts, which brought her total to 104 guns. On 7 June, a pair of improved Type 22 surface-search radars were installed. A pair of Type 13 early-warning radars and an E27 radar detector were probably also fitted.[12]
On 23 June, the sisters conducted their first catapult training, each with four D4Ys and six E16As aboard; subsequent sessions were conducted on 21 July and 31 August.[26] Two days later, Hyūga became the flagship of the Fourth Carrier Division, now commanded by the recently promoted Rear Admiral Matsuda. In September, six racks of 30-tube 12.7 cm anti-aircraft rocket launchers were added.[12] Training of the D4Y and E16A aircrew was slowed by technical problems and was generally conducted from land bases. By 1 October the 634th had on strength 17 D4Ys, of which six were serviceable, and 18 E16As, of which 16 were operable.[27]
After the Americans began attacking Japanese installations in the Bonin Islands on 10 October 1944, the aircraft of the Fourth Carrier Division were ordered to prepare for combat by the commander of the Combined Fleet, Admiral Soemu Toyoda. Two days later, the 634th Naval Air Group was reassigned to the Second Air Fleet and began flying to bases in southern Kyushu; among these were nine D4Ys and a dozen E16As assigned to Ise and Hyūga. On 14 October they attacked the aircraft carriers of Task Force 38 near Formosa with little effect and heavy losses.[28] The following day Nomura was promoted to rear admiral.[12]
The ships of the Fourth Carrier Division were assigned to the Main Body of the 1st Mobile Fleet, commanded by Vice Admiral Jisaburō Ozawa. The Main Body's role was to act as decoys to attract attention away from the two other forces approaching from the south and west. All forces were to converge on Leyte Gulf on 25 October and the Main Body left Japan on 20 October. By the morning of 24 October, the Main Body was within range of the northernmost American carriers of Task Force 38 and Ozawa ordered an air strike launched by the Third Carrier Division (Hyūga and Ise had no aircraft aboard) to attract the attention of the Americans. This accomplished little else as the Japanese aircraft failed to penetrate past the defending fighters; the survivors landed at airfields on Luzon. The Americans were preoccupied dealing with the other Japanese naval forces and defending themselves from air attacks launched from Luzon and Leyte and could not spare any aircraft to search for the Japanese carriers until the afternoon. They finally found them, but Admiral William Halsey, Jr., commander of Task Force 38, decided that it was too late in the day to mount an effective strike. He did, however, turn all of his ships north to position himself for a dawn attack on the Japanese carriers the next day.[29]
On the morning of 25 October, Hyūga was positioned near the light carriers Chitose and Chiyoda to protect them with her anti-aircraft guns. Her radar picked up the first of five American airstrikes at a range of 125 nautical miles (232 km; 144 mi) at 07:13, but the battleship was not a primary target. Fragments from near misses by bombs damaged the ship's anti-torpedo blister and she developed a 5° list that was easily corrected. Despite Hyūga's protection, Chiyoda was set afire and her engines were disabled. Matsuda ordered the battleship and the light cruiser Isuzu to tow the crippled carrier, but Hyūga was unable to do so and rejoined the main body at 18:30. The American submarine USS Halibut spotted the Fourth Carrier Division at 17:42 and manoeuvered to attack, missing with six torpedoes at 18:43. At 19:00 Ozawa ordered Matsuda to take his ships south to defend Isuzu and her escorting destroyers that were attempting to rescue Chiyoda's survivors, despite gunfire from a group of four American cruisers. Unable to locate either group of ships, Ozawa ordered Matsuda to reverse course at 23:30 and head for Amami Ōshima to refuel. Despite being spotted by American submarines en route, the division arrived safely on 27 October. That same day Ozawa transferred his flag to Hyūga. After leaving the island the following day, they were unsuccessfully attacked by the submarine USS Sea Dog before their arrival at Kure on the 29th.[12]
Between 29 October and 8 November, the catapults were removed to improve the firing arcs of No. 3 and No. 4 turrets. Hyūga and Ise departed on 11 November, loaded with troops and munitions for Manila, capital of the Philippines, but news was received of heavy American air attacks on Manila and they were diverted to the Spratly Islands. They arrived on 14 November and their cargo was unloaded so it could be transshipped to the Philippines. The 4th Carrier Division was transferred to the 2nd Fleet the following day. Reinforced by the battleship Haruna and three cruisers, the sisters proceeded on to Lingga Island, near Singapore, on 20 November. They arrived two days later and remained there until 12 December when they departed for Cam Ranh Bay, French Indochina, where they were on standby for an attack on an American supply convoy bound for the island of Mindanao in the Philippines. Vice Admiral Kiyohide Shima, commander of the 5th Fleet, hoisted his flag aboard Hyūga two days later. The attack was cancelled on the 30th and the ships sailed for Singapore where they arrived on 1 January 1945 before continuing on to Lingga. That same day the Fourth Carrier Division was transferred to the Southwest Area Fleet and Shima hauled his flag down. On 6 February, the division sailed for Singapore to participate in Operation Kita. The sisters and the light cruiser Ōyodo were loaded with critically needed strategic war supplies (oil, rubber, tin, zinc, and mercury) and 1,150 surplus oil workers to be ferried back to Japan.[12]
The division sailed from Singapore on 10 February 1945 and was spotted by the British submarine HMS Tantalus the following day. Tantalus was forced to submerge by a maritime patrol aircraft and was unable to attack. On 13 February the submarine USS Bergall unsuccessfully attacked the ships as did the submarine USS Blower. Later that afternoon, Ōyodo launched one of her floatplanes which spotted the submarine USS Bashaw on the surface about 22 kilometres (14 mi) ahead of the convoy. Hyūga opened fire with her main guns and forced Bashaw to submerge when one of her shells landed within 1,600 metres (1 mi) of the submarine. The convoy reached the Matsu Islands, off the Chinese coast, on the 15th and was unsuccessfully attacked by the submarine USS Rasher before they reached Zhoushan Island, near Shanghai, that night. The convoy reached Kure on 20 February, having evaded or escaped pursuit by twenty-three Allied submarines along the way.[12]
The 4th Carrier Division was disbanded on 1 March and Hyūga was reduced to first-class reserve. Rear Admiral Kiyoshi Kusagawa relieved Nomura that same day. From this time until the surrender of Japan, Hyūga was anchored in Hiroshima Bay without fuel or aircraft. More than 240 American carrier-based aircraft from Task Force 58 attacked Kure on 19 March and the ship was hit by three bombs, killing 37 and wounding 52 crewmen. Her anti-aircraft guns claimed to have shot down a single Curtiss SB2C Helldiver dive bomber during the attack. Re-designated as a fourth-class reserve ship on 20 April, Hyūga was towed to a new position within Hiroshima Bay and heavily camouflaged. She was later attacked during the bombing of Kure on 24 July and was struck by 10 bombs that blew off part of her stem, destroyed her bridge and started major fires. Over 200 sailors were killed, including Kusagawa, and 600 wounded by the attack. Progressive flooding caused the ship to sink in shallow water over the next several days and her crew was ordered to remove all easily accessible weapons. Hyūga was unsuccessfully attacked by 24 USAAF Consolidated B-24 Liberator heavy bombers on the 29th and abandoned three days later by her crew. She was removed from the Navy List on 20 November 1945. Her wreck was raised and broken up by the Kure Dockyard of the Harima Zōsen Corporation from 2 July 1946 to 4 July 1947.[12]
34°10′0″N 132°32′59″E﻿ / ﻿34.16667°N 132.54972°E﻿ / 34.16667; 132.54972
Steve Gower (January 24, 1965 – September 2, 2021), better known by his ring name Steve "The Brawler" Lawler, was an American professional wrestler and trainer. He was a mainstay of regional and independent promotions in the Southern United States since the early 1980s, especially in Georgia and the Carolinas, having wrestled for Deep South Wrestling, Southern Championship Wrestling, Georgia All-Star Wrestling, North Georgia Wrestling Association, Peach State Wrestling and Dusty Rhodes' Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling. In later years, he appeared with other NWA veterans for the revived Georgia Championship Wrestling.
A noted tag team specialist, he was a member of the original Bad Company with John Michaels and The Nightmare, a popular "heel" group in the mid-to late 1980s, as well as successful runs with Dennis Gale, Dino Minelli, Bulldog Raines and younger brother Terry Lawler. One of the first students ever trained by Glenn Holbrook, Gower became a trainer himself and served as an instructor for the Masked Superstar's wrestling school and the Global Wrestling Federation's training facility. Among his students include Buff Bagwell, Disco Inferno, Murder One, and Terry Lawler.
A native of Buford, Georgia, Steve Gower was a lifelong fan of professional wrestling and had wanted to become a wrestler as early as 13 years old. As a teenager, he entered and won several toughman contests in Dothan, Alabama. In 1984, a local wrestler out of Macon offered to train him as a professional wrestler, however, Gower later claimed that the veteran wrestler "took my money" and "taught me everything to do wrong." It was after his initial match in Griffin, Georgia, which he later referred to as "a complete disaster", that he was approached by Glenn Holbrook in the dressing room after the show. Seeing potential in the 19-year-old, he invited Gower to train with him. He spent every day for the next 15 weeks working out with Holbrook before he went on the road.[1]
Gower briefly toured Florida, where he wrestled on television as "Adrian Steele", and where he was first given the name Steve "The Brawler" Lawler. Gower would also fill in for masked wrestlers, most notably The Flame. He soon formed a tag team with "Cowboy" Dennis Gale and traveled to various NWA territories and "outlaw" promotions in the South and East Coast. He later claimed that many opponents would refuse to wrestle them, or not show up at all, because of their stiff wrestling style. Charlie Smith, a popular Georgia wrestler in the 1960s and 1970s, once told him he was "the only man he'd ever known who would go to jail for the business." Meeting with Buddy Landell in Atlanta during the mid-1980s, Landell offered to bring him in to WCW, but Gower declined, not willing to be under contract to the organization.[1]
Around this time, Steve Kyle (the original "Steve "The Brawler" Lawler"), was wrestling in the Gulf Coast and Memphis territories though the two should not be confused.[2]
In 1986, Gower began wrestling for Jody Hamilton's Deep South Wrestling where he feuded with Crazy Luke Graham over the promotion's "brass knuckles" championship. Though a fan favorite while wrestling against Graham, he turned "heel" shortly after defeating him for the title.[1] It was also around this time that he joined the original Bad Company, a three-man tag team similar to The Fabulous Freebirds, with John Michaels and The Nightmare and were successful in the region during the mid-to late 1980s. On April 28, 1987, he and The Nightmare wrestled the Rock n' Roll Rebels (Greg Evans & Richard Sartain) at a benefit show for Ware County High School in Waycross, Georgia.[3] The trio also battled "Wildfire" Tommy Rich, Johnny Rich, and Ricky Morton in the spring of 1988, their matches later being aired on the nationally syndicated program "Pro Wrestling This Week."[4][5] One of his matches against Tommy Rich was later featured on "Blood Battles of the South" highlighting the former NWA World Heavyweight Champion's "bloodiest grudge matches."[6]
While working for Hamilton, Gower also started competing in Southern Championship Wrestling and began competing there full-time following the close of DSW. During his time in the promotion, he formed a popular tag team with Dino Minelli known as "Thunder and Lightning"[1] and twice won the promotion's tag team championship. Their first reign began after defeating Ranger Ross and Joey Maggs for the belts in Alpharetta, Georgia on October 23, 1988, and held the titles for two months before being defeated by Ross and Mr. Wrestling II in Atlanta on December 30, 1988. In their second and final championship reign, with manager Sir Samuel F. Kent, a feud with Georgia Power (Nightmare Ted Allen & Jimmy Powell) would end with their losing the titles to them in 1989. The two were compared to the Rock 'n' Roll Express and similar teams at one time for their "chemistry and ability in the ring", however, their partnership ended in a bitter break up.[citation needed]
Gower continued wrestling in various Southern independent promotions having memorable matches, and gaining invaluable experience, against such well-known veterans as Ray Candy, Randy Rose, Mr. Wrestling II, Dick Slater, Ken Timbs, Mike Golden, Abdullah the Butcher, The Bullet, and Scott Studd, among others.[1]
One of the top stars for Joe Pedicino's Georgia All-Star Wrestling, Gower won the GASW Heavyweight Championship from Nick Busick in Carrollton on December 2, 1990, and held the title for over four months before dropping the title to Joel Deaton in Canton, Georgia on April 21, 1991. He also ran a wrestling school during this period for the Masked Superstar, and later the Global Wrestling Federation's training facility, where he trained a number of wrestlers including Marcus Alexander Bagwell,[7] Disco Inferno,[8][9] Murder One and his younger brother, Terry Lawler.[1][10] Bagwell, wrestling under the name "The Fabulous Fabian",[11] defeated Gower for the GASW (North Georgia) Television Championship in his first professional match.[12]
On September 15, 1991, Gower faced his former student a second time at an interpromotional show in Marietta, Georgia between the Global Wrestling Federation, where Bagwell was now wrestling as "The Handsome Stranger", and Georgia All-Star Wrestling which he lost to Bagwell via disqualification.[13]
Gower continued his long-running feud against Tommy Rich in GASW, helped by manager Dave Prazak, where the two had several wild brawls. Prazak later claimed that during one of their encounters, in which Rich put Prazak in a piledriver, "both he and Steve Lawler were roaring drunk for that match." They would eventually meet in a "lights out" match at Douglasville, Georgia with the loser being forced to retire.[14] Gower himself later said the greatest matches he ever had were against Rich calling them "some of the bloodiest, they were some of the hardest, and I have a lot of respect for Rich to this day."[1]
With the end of the NWA territory system, Gower remained in Georgia working for independent promotions such as Peach State Wrestling (1991–95), shortly after it began bringing in SCW stars for its televised matches,[15] and the North Georgia Wrestling Association (1992–97). Shortly before the latter promotion's close, he and Bubba Humphries[16] won the NGWA Tag Team Championship from Kenny and John Arden and held them for less than a month before dropping the belts back to the Ardens in Rome on April 19, 1996. He also wrestled and lost to Kenny Arden in a singles match on May 18, 1996.[17] A year later, Gower won the NGWA Heavyweight Championship and remained champion until the promotion's close at the end of the year. He also spent some time in the North American Wrestling Alliance and appeared at its supercard "The Crime in College Park" where he faced his old ally, "The Nightmare" Ted Allen on February 12, 1999.[18]
In 2000, he joined Dusty Rhodes' short-lived Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling. He was one of its few major stars not affiliated with either Extreme Championship Wrestling or World Championship Wrestling. He appeared as "Desperado" Liberty McCall on "Halloween Horror Slam 1", its first television taping, against Jason Holton[19] though negative fan reaction caused the promotion to change it back to his old "Brawler" ring name.[1] On February 18, 2001, at its "TCW vs. ECW" supercard, Gower teamed with Erik Watts in the main event to wrestle Rhodes and a mystery partner.[20][21][22][23] The match was one of several on "Best of Dusty Rhodes - Living The American Dream" released by RF Video on VHS.[24] He met Rhodes again three months later, this time with partner Scott Hall, in a tag team match in Dothan, Alabama with Larry Zbyszko which they lost.[25] He was also on the losing end of a 6-man tag team match with Ron Studd and Barry Windham at TCW's "Woodstock Show", on December 7, 2001, when they were disqualified in their match to Dusty Rhodes, Bob Armstrong and Larry Zbyzsko.
Gower eventually left pro wrestling to work for a building supply company, and later with a major motorcycle distributor, Greg and Lori Becker's Stone Mountain Harley-Davidson, though he continued to make occasional appearances on the Georgia "indy circuit" for a number of years.[1] On November 29, 2002, he and his old tag team partner Dennis Gale reunited for a Peach State Wrestling reunion show, held at the Lions Club Fairgrounds in Cordele, Georgia, where they wrestled "Wildfire" Tommy Rich and Mr. Hughes in the main event. "Bullet" Bob Armstrong was originally scheduled to serve as the special guest referee however he was forced to drop out after being injured in an attack by Erik Watts earlier in the show. Other wrestlers on the card included Vordell Walker, Scott Armstrong, Marty Jannetty, Bambi, Leilani Kai, Jorge Estrada, Sonny Siaki, Ray Lloyd, Scotty Riggs, and Thunderbolt Patterson.[26] He also made a brief appearance for NAWA Ring Champions. On April 17, 2004, he was scheduled to wrestle Tommy Rich but instead tricked the younger Seth Cruise into taking his place. He returned for two more appearances defeating Johnny Grunge on May 15 and, at its "Spring Stampede" supercard, his brother Terry Lawler in a Rome Street Fight on May 29, 2004. All three shows were held at Dillard's Music Park in Rome, Georgia.[27]
After an absence of several years, Gower came out of retirement losing over thirty pounds to get in shape for his return. By 2008, he was wrestling for both NAWA Ring Champions, for which he served as booker at times, and Southern Extreme Championship Wrestling. On January 6, 2008, at SECW's "Bill Dromo Appreciation Night" in Carrollton, he wrestled in a 6-man tag team match with Chick Donovan and Bulldog Raines against Bob Armstrong, Tommy Rich, and Buff Bagwell, losing when his team was disqualified.[28][29][30] On February 7, a tag team match with Bulldog Raines against Tommy Rich and Jimmy Powell in Rome for NAWA Ring Champions ended in a double-disqualification.[31] He and Raines lost a match in SECW against Bull Buchanan and Buff Bagwell three days later.[32][33][34]
The two split up after their most recent loss and were on opposing sides the following week when he and his new partner, The Super Destroyer, beat Bull Buchanan and Bulldog Raines via disqualification.[35][36] In SECW, Gower later challenged Raines for the SECW Heavyweight Championship.[37]
The two were back together again in NAWA Ring Champions days later to wrestle Tommy Rich and Kenny Arden in Rome,[38] but fought each other at NAWA's next show on March 13, another tag team match, pitting Steve & Terry Lawler against Bulldog Raines & the Nightmare. Both Lawler and Raines were still being managed by Jackie Rosedale.[37] At another NAWA house show, headlined by Bambi versus Peggy Lee Leather, in Cedarsburg on April 4 he appeared with Ricky Morton, Bobby Eaton, and Chick Donovan.[39] Two weeks later he wrestled Tommy Rich in a "bounty" match in Carrollton.[40]
On May 3, 2008, Gower was yet again among the Southern legends, such as Tommy Rich, Dennis Condrey and The Nightmare, invited to participate in AWA World-1 South's "Southern Clash" supercard in Cordele, Georgia. Though the majority took part on the "AWA Legends vs. Georgia Legends" main event, he wrestled The Nightmare, in a "special attraction match." The event also included the AWA's Larry Zbyszko and Jake Milliman & Frankie DeFalco, as well as younger independent wrestlers Ricky Landell, Kirby Mack, Chasyn Rance, Brian Logan, Ron Niemi, and The Heartbreak Express (Sean and Phil Davis).[41]
In early 2008, Gower was among a number of wrestlers booked to wrestle an event in Woodstock, Georgia for Georgia Wrestling Promotions. The card advertised Gower and Terry Lawler to face Hot Like Lava (Cru Jones & Shawn Banks) in the main event and was to include a 20-man Battle Royal, with the final two men facing each other to determine the new GWP Champion on June 1, and appearances from Tommy Rich, Masked Superstar, and former students Buff Bagwell and Murder One.[42][43]
The event experienced a number of problems both prior to and during the show. The promotion's owner, Roger Cantrell, had been hospitalized due to cellulitis related to his diabetes around this time and contracted pneumonia during his stay. He was later diagnosed with kidney failure and put on dialysis. Despite his poor health, and disregarding advice that he cancel the event, Cantrell provided the card for the upcoming show in Woodstock direct from his bed at Northside Cherokee Hospital.[42]
Advertising for the show was not distributed until the three days before the show, contributing to its low attendance, and Cantrell had to personally call wrestlers who had been prematurely told the event was going to be cancelled. On the night of the show, at the Hot Wheels Skate Center, the building's manager informed the arriving wrestlers that she would not allow the show to take place because the promotion already owed her $500 for a bounced check received for a previous show in January, another $100 she loaned Cantrell to pay talent, in addition to $500 for that night's show. Cantrell was not at the building that night, instead at his home recovering from his hospital stay, and so Gower talked with the manager instead. She agreed to allow the show to continue provided Hot Wheels would receive the gate receipts, presumably the first $1100, to recoup the money Cantrell owed her. As GWP typically paid its talent with the gate receipts it was expected that the wrestlers would be paid with what was left. Less than 20 people were in attendance at bell time (7:30 pm), far less than expected, and none of the wrestlers were to receive payment for their appearance. Masked Superstar, Tommy Rich, Cru Jones, Terry Lawler and Gower all left before their matches and Murder One was forced to rebook the show at the last minute with the remaining wrestlers.[44][45]
Gower, upset by the experience, posted a message criticizing the promotion on his website shortly after what would be its final show;
GEORGIA  W_______    PROMOTIONS, DON'T CALL IT WRESTLING !!In the many years, Steve Lawler has been wrestling. He has come into contact with numerous wrestling promoters and federations.   The Brawler would like to think that he has acted professional  in the ring and behaved professionally with other promoters in negotiations.This brings me to the subject of Georgia Wrestling Promotions (GWP).  That will be the last time you see the word "Wrestling" in that phrase. In the twenty plus years "The Brawler" has been in the business,  He has never been treated so poorly by any federation as he was treated by GWP.  The promoter of this group should be embarrassed to call himself a promoter or to pretend he is in the wrestling business. It is enough to make Steve Lawler embarrassed to be in the wrestling business.It is a shame that any guy can come out of the crowd and pass himself off  as a promoter without having any respect for the business. If you pass bounced checks or don't  take care of  the building prior to your next  show, you are a damned fool.  It is damned insulting to disrespect legends of the sport like Masked Superstar and Tommy Rich.  How can an asshole like this expect wrestlers to show up for his shows when he is pulling stunts like this ? How can wrestlers work for a person with no respect for good business practices and when you know he is screwing your brothers in the dressing room (You know he will screw you over next!!!) ?This promoter is a piece of shit. I am warning all my brothers in the business to  stay away from this group. I would strongly encourage someone in this group to step up and make things right with those who have been cheated.If you don't have the money or know how to promote, Buy a damn ticket!!! [46]
On June 1, 2010, Gower was a guest on the internet radio program "The Dave & Danger Show" with Dave Wills and Mark Danger during which he discussed his training and early career, friendships with many Southern wrestlers (including road stories with Tommy Rich), and promoted an upcoming benefit show, "Legends of Wrestling", to raise money for Breast Cancer Network of Strength. He was particularly critical of the modern wrestling industry, such as the use of the six-sided "octagon"-like ring used by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, the breaking of "kayfabe", and the shift away from "traditional" wrestling to sports entertainment. He also spoke out against efforts by the Georgia Wrestling Commission to regulate pro wrestling in his home state and expressed interest in holding a special wrestling show to recognize Georgia's legendary wrestling personalities.[1]
The "Legends of Wrestling" show took place three days later at an outdoor concert held at the Granite Mountain Harley-Davidson dealership, celebrating its 6th anniversary, in Conyers, Georgia. A portion of the proceeds went to raising funds for breast cancer patients and family support. Among the performers at the event included Abdullah the Butcher, Randy Rose, Steve and Terry Lawler, and the masked Original Assassin.[47]
Gower was also present at an event for Purks International Championship Wrestling a week later, where Terry Lawler was wrestling in a 6-man tag team match, although Gower did not take part in the show.[48]
On February 12, 2011, Gower reunited with his old Bad Company tag team partner, Jon Michaels, at A Nightmare To Remember, to take on Joel Deaton and Mr. Atlanta Villa Rica Street Fight in the main event. A memorial show for "The Nightmare" Ted Allen, Bad Company was accompanied by Allen's old partner The Nightmare II of the Masked Nightmares.[citation needed]
During the summer of 2011, Gower appeared with other Georgia legends for Georgia Championship Wrestling which had been recently revived by promoter Grady Odom. On its June 30 show in Phenix City, he appeared alongside Abdullah the Butcher, Joel Deaton, Ricky Morton, and Bob & Brad Armstrong, where he wrestled Vordell Walker.[49] He was scheduled to meet Walker two months later at GCW's "Invasion" supercard in Macon, Georgia[50] but this was later changed to a tag team match between him and Billy Black against Tony Atlas and Tommy Rich. The four wrestled for 12 minutes until referee Keith Steinborn saw Black hit Atlas with his cowbell causing their disqualification.[citation needed]
In July 2012, Gower appeared on the Wrestle Rock event taking place in Covington Georgia. The event which featured Rock & Roll Express' Robert Gibson, cage matches, street fights, a live band and women's matches. Gower tagged with local personality Bam Bam against Lee Brock and Chris Nelms in a steel cage street fight match.[citation needed]
The Brawler's retirement kicked off in late 2012 and was set to run up to the third annual Nightmare to Remember event taking place in Villa Rica, Georgia on February 16, 2013, in which Steve Lawler would wrestle in his final match. On Christmas night 2012, Lawler and younger brother Terry wrestled for Georgia All-Star Wrestling as part of Steve's retirement tour against local team "The Best of the Best". On February 2, 2013, Lawler tagged again with brother Terry at PCW in Porterdale, Georgia against "Worst Case Scenario". Later in the evening on February 2 while set to compete at NSCW in Covington, Georgia, Steve Lawler was presented with an award for three decades of service in the wrestling business. The Lawler brothers and Bam Bam faced Alex Brock, Chris Nelms & Demarko Knight in a 6-man match. On February 16, 2013 at the 3rd annual Nightmare to Remember event, Lawler along with Grizzly Boone and manager John Michaels (all members of the original Bad Company) took part in and won his official retirement match against the Pretty Young Things (Fredrick & James) with manager Phil Hefner.[51][52]
Gower died on September 2, 2021, at the age of 56. He had been hospitalized at a Florida hospital for nearly two weeks suffering from COVID-19 and pneumonia symptoms while on a ventilator.[53]
As one of the best known and well-travelled people of the 20th century, there are many cultural references to Pope John Paul II (18 May 1920 – 2 April 2005), who was the 264th Pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 16 October 1978 until his death in April 2005. He was the second-longest reigning pontiff, having served for 27 years, short of Pius IX's 31 years. In addition to his own extensive writings, many films, television programs, books, and journal articles have been written about John Paul II.
Films made about John Paul II include:
Buck Rogers: A Life in the Future is the title of a science fiction novel by Martin Caidin published in 1995.
The novel is a reimagining of Buck Rogers, a pulp fiction character created in the 1920s by Philip Francis Nowlan and later popularized in a long-running comic strip and in films and television. Caidin's novel was published by TSR, Inc., which also published a role-playing game based upon Nowlan's creation entitled Buck Rogers XXVC, which in turn spawned a series of novels.[1]
Caidin's novel retells the story of Anthony "Buck" Rogers, a top pilot who is mortally wounded in a Fokker plane crash. Given zero chance of survival with modern-day medical methods, Rogers is placed into suspended animation at Cyberdyne Systems, in the hopes that at some point in the future new technologies will render his injuries survivable. Ultimately, as civilizations rise and fall, Rogers is kept in stasis for five centuries before he is discovered and revived.
As with the original Buck Rogers story, the pilot must adjust to life in the 25th century while also helping Earth battle various invaders. Along the way he falls in love with Wilma Deering, a top pilot in the Space Corps.
The first edition of the novel includes as a bonus a reprint of a 1933 children's book by Nowlan and Dick Calkins entitled Buck Rogers in the 25th Century,  which was 32 pages long and in full color.[2]

This article about a 1990s science fiction novel is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.See guidelines for writing about novels. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
The Holle Cropper (also known as the Amsterdam Balloon Cropper) is a breed of fancy pigeon developed over many years of selective breeding.[1] Holle Croppers, along with other varieties of domesticated pigeons are all descendants from the rock pigeon (Columba livia). This breed was developed in Holland.[2]

This Pigeon breed–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Edward George McCullough (28 May 1909 – 17 June 1994) was a Canadian politician and farmer. McCullough was a Co-operative Commonwealth Federation member of the House of Commons of Canada. He was born in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan and became a farmer.
He was first elected at the Assiniboia riding in the 1945 general election. In the 1949 election McCullough became a candidate at Moose Mountain but was defeated by John James Smith of the Liberal party. McCullough unseated Smith there in the 1953 election then was re-elected in 1957. McCullough was defeated in 1958 by Richard Southam of the Progressive Conservative party. McCullough was also unsuccessful in unseating Southam in the 1962 election, under the New Democratic Party to which the CCF was renamed by that time.


This article about a Saskatchewan politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Hilton Leeds Arena known in early planning as the Portland Crescent Hotel was a planned £32 million,[2] 15 storey, four-star, 206-bedroom[3] Hilton hotel. Construction began in Leeds's Civic Quarter in late 2013, with the original projected opening date in 2015 (though this was pushed back into 2016).[4] Designed by Architects and Interior Designers Dexter Moren Associates[4] for developer GB Group, the building was intended to match the nearby Civic Hall, and was to be clad entirely in natural limestone and Portland stone.
In March 2015, the construction arm of Oxford GB Two Group went into administration with work being halted on the project. Since then, the building work has stagnated with nothing being constructed on site. 12 months later, in March 2016, the developing arm of the company also went into administration, which has led to calls for the project to be moved forward and completed from Leeds City Council.[5]
53°48′10.9″N 1°32′47″W﻿ / ﻿53.803028°N 1.54639°W﻿ / 53.803028; -1.54639
The Heroes of the Alamo Monument is an outdoor memorial commemorating those who fought and died during the Battle of the Alamo, installed on the Texas State Capitol grounds, in Austin, Texas, United States. It was designed by J.S. Clark, sculpted by Crohl Smith, and erected in 1891.[1] The monument features a Texas Sunset Red Granite base topped by a bronze statue of a Texan carrying a muzzle-loading rifle. Among the names inscribed in the base's supports are James Bowie, David Crockett, and William B. Travis.[1]

This article about a sculpture in Texas is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Rajni Tilak (27 May 1958 – 30 March 2018) was one of the most prominent Indian Dalit rights activists and a leading voice of Dalit feminism[2] and writing.[3] She served as the Executive Director of the Centre for Alternative Dalit Media,[4] co-founded the National Association of Dalit Organisations,[5] and served as President of the Dalit Lekhak Sangh (Dalit Writers' Group).[6]
Tilak was born in Old Delhi, India on 27 May 1958 in a family with limited means. Her father was a tailor whose ancestors had migrated to Delhi from the state of Uttar Pradesh. Being the first of seven children, she had to give up on her aspiration of becoming a nurse due to lack of financial support and took up a job to aid her family.[7] She had an early interest in writing, expressed by writing a poem called “Ka Se Kahu Dukh Apna” as her first poem.[8] After completing her higher education in 1975, she joined ITI (Industrial Training Institute) for vocational courses like stenography, cutting and tailoring.
While in college at ITI in Delhi, she organised a union for girls protesting the gender based discrimination faced by them. She found her strength as a leader, merging this group with the Progressive Students' Union (PSU). She later split from them citing ideological and political differences. She also went on to organise a 4000-strong organisation of anganwadi workers, to address demands of regularization of pay scale.[9] Over the years Tilak became involved in Dalit activism and also made her mark by also challenging patriarchy within the caste dimension.[10] She organised agitations over the Mathura rape case in 1972 all over Delhi and became associated with Saheli, an autonomous women's group. There onward she began working on issues of health, sanitation, counselling for family planning, rape, molestation, etc.[11]
In the 1980s, Tilak started a union with Bharthiya Dalit Panthers in Delhi. They opened a Dalit theatre group called Ahahwan and started a students' awareness programme by establishing a youth study circle.[12]
She was associated with multiple organisations, such as NACDAOR (National Confederation of Dalit and Adivasi Organizations), CADAM (Center for Alternative Dalit Media), NFDW (National Federation of Dalit Women), Rashtriya Dalit Mahila Andolan (RDMA), and many more.[13]
In 2011, the Bollywood film Aarakshan (directed by Prakash Jha) caused controversy, as the director was alleged to have insulted Dalits. Tilak was asked to view the film before its release.[14] In 2012, she was part of a coalition of Dalit and non-Dalit writers, scholars, and activists who petitioned the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) to correctly represent the role of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar in school textbooks.[15]
Tilak died on 30 March 2018 at the age of 59 at St Stephen's Hospital, Delhi. She had been taken to the hospital for treatment for an illness of the spine.[23] She is survived by her daughter- actor, artist, activist and writer Jyotsna Siddharth.
Her death was mourned by several scholars and activists. Condolence meetings were held around the country and tributes were paid on social media websites including by her friend Kavita Srivastava, leader of People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL).[24]
1st Regiment of New York Volunteers, for service in California and during the war with Mexico, was raised in 1846 during the Mexican–American War by Jonathan D. Stevenson. Accepted by the United States Army in August 1846, the 1st Regiment of New York Volunteers was transported around Cape Horn to California, where it served as garrisons in Yerba Buena, Monterey, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles and San Diego. Elements of the Volunteers under Lieutenant Colonel Henry Stanton Burton were involved in operations of the Pacific Coast Campaign in Baja California, captured and garrisoned towns there, fighting in the Battle of La Paz, Siege of La Paz and defeated local forces at the Skirmish of Todos Santos after the peace was negotiated in 1848. The Regiment was then evacuated from Baja California and disbanded in California on August, September and October 1848.[1][2]
It was originally formed as the 7th Regiment of New York Volunteers upon the request of President James K. Polk by New York State Legislator Jonathan D. Stevenson. Secretary of War William L. Marcy directed Stevenson that the regiment should be composed of unmarried men, of good habits and varied pursuits, and such as would be likely to remain in California or adjoining territory at the close of the war.
The New York Legion departed New York 27 September 1846 aboard five ships, including the Susan Drew, LooChoo, and Thos H Perkins. Arriving in San Francisco 19 March 1847, companies D, E, G, and I were transported by store-ship to the California Capital Monterey. From this post, companies of the regiment were deployed by ship to lower California where they participated in the battles of La Paz, and the final Skirmish of Todos Santos. It is said of Co. D "This Company was without doubt the last command of American troops to leave the soil of Mexico after the close of the Mexican War."[3] During the regiments tour of service in California portions of the regiment were dispatched throughout California in search of Indian horse-thieves. Much of the 1st New York was disbanded in early 1848.
It was formed as the 7th Regiment New York Volunteers  and has been commonly referred to in New York as the California Guard or the California Regiment.  Since the 7th New York Volunteers was composed of infantry, cavalry, and artillery the regiment was also called the New York Legion.  Finally, it was re-designated in early 1848 by the War Department as the 1st Regiment New York Volunteers, for service in California and during the war with Mexico, and is now also called the 1st New York Legion.  However, this fact was not well known outside of California and thus another regiment formed in New York by Colonel Ward B. Burnett at which point it served in Mexico as the 1st Regiment New York Volunteers during the war but was re-designated by the War Department as the 2nd Regiment of New York Volunteers, during the war with Mexico.
The men's 110 metres hurdles was an event at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia. There were 24 athletes from 15 nations. The event took place on 27 and 28 November 1956.[1] The maximum number of athletes per nation had been set at 3 since the 1930 Olympic Congress. The event was won by Lee Calhoun of the United States. It was the fifth of nine consecutive American victories, and the 11th overall gold medal for the United States in the 110 metres hurdles. It was also the third of four consecutive American podium sweeps, and the seventh overall sweep by the United States in the event.
Jack Davis won silver for the second consecutive Games. The United States had won 28 of the 35 medals in the high hurdles between 1896 and 1952, all by different hurdlers; Davis was the first American to win a second medal. By contrast, two of the five non-American medalists had won two medals apiece, so Davis was the third man overall to do so.
Jack Davis came into the Olympics with the world record, having run 13.4 in a qualifying heat at the national championships a week before the Olympic trials.  That was 5 months earlier.  Here the three Americans were the class of the field, all three running the semi-final in 14.0, almost half a second faster than any other competitor.
In the final, Lee Calhoun in lane 2 got the edge, leading by half a meter by the third hurdle.  Davis, across the track in lane 5, could only keep pace but couldn't make up the gap.  He gave his best effort to lean at the tape but was clearly beaten by Calhoun.  Four metres back, Joel Shankle completed the American sweep, three metres ahead of Martin Lauer.  Almost three years later, Lauer would get Davis' world record.  Calhoun would equal it a year after that, in the season leading up to his repeating as Olympic Champion in 1960 leading another American sweep over Lauer.
This was the 13th appearance of the event, which is one of 12 athletics events to have been held at every Summer Olympics. Two finalists from 1952 returned: silver medalist Jack Davis of the United States and fifth-place finisher Ken Doubleday of Australia. Davis, having also won the 1956 AAU championship with a new world record, was a "slight favorite" over countryman Lee Calhoun, who had tied Davis for first at the U.S. Olympic trials. The third American, Joel Shankle, was not quite at the level of Davis and Calhoun but was still good enough to give the United States a good chance at another medal sweep.[2]
Colombia made its first appearance in the event; Germany competed as the "United Team of Germany" for the first time. The United States made its 13th appearance, the only nation to have competed in the 110 metres hurdles in each Games to that point.
The competition used the basic three-round format introduced in 1908. The first round consisted of four heats, with 6 or 7 hurdlers each (before withdrawals; there ultimately were 6 starters in each heat). The top three hurdlers in each heat advanced to the semifinals. The 12 semifinalists were divided into two semifinals of 6 hurdlers each; the top three hurdlers in each advanced to the 6-man final.[2][3]
These were the standing world and Olympic records (in seconds) prior to the 1956 Summer Olympics.
Lee Calhoun and Jack Davis were both officially clocked at 13.5 seconds in the final to break the Olympic record.
All times are Australian Eastern Standard Time (UTC+10)
The 2019–20 Orenburg season was the club's second season back in the Russian Premier League, the highest tier of association football in Russia, following their relegation at the end of the 2016–17, and their second in their 43-year history.
On 8 December, manager Vladimir Fedotov resigned with Konstantin Yemelyanov being appointed as his replacement.[1]
On 17 March, the Russian Premier League postponed all league fixtures until April 10 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[2]
On 1 April, the Russian Football Union extended the suspension of football until 31 May.[3]
On 15 May, the Russian Football Union announced that the Russian Premier League season would resume on 21 June.[4]
On 22 May, manager Konstantin Yemelyanov's contract expired, with Ilshat Aitkulov being appointed as caretaker manager.[5]
On 26 June, it was announced that Orenburg's fixture against Krasnodar scheduled for 27 June would not take place due to an outbreak of COVID-19 in the Orenburg squad,[6] and was subsequently awarded to Krasnodar as a 3-0 technical victory.[7]
On 1 July, the Russian Premier League announced that that afternoon's game between Orenburg and Ural Yekaterinburg had been called off due to the continued outbreak of COVID-19 within the Orenburg squad.[8]
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Cheung Chau (Chinese: 長洲) is one of the 10 constituencies in the Islands District.
Merging Cheung Chau South and Cheung Chau North for the 2019 District Council elections, the constituency returns one district councillor to the Islands District Council, with an election every four years.
Cheung Chau covers the whole island of Cheung Chau. It has projected population of 20,712.[3]
The list of shipwrecks in 1936 includes ships sunk, foundered, grounded, or otherwise lost during 1936.
The coal hulk was driven ashore in a storm at Stanley Harbour, Falkland Islands. The ship remains beached there.
The four-masted barque ran around on the Ham Stone Rock, near Bolt Head, Devon, United Kingdom. She was beached at Starhole Bay but was wrecked there by the action of the waves.
The survey ship was driven aground on a reef at Port San Vincente, Philippines in a typhoon. She was later refloated, repaired and returned to service.
The 1898 Mare Island earthquake occurred in Northern California on March 30 at 23:43 local time with a moment magnitude of 5.8–6.4 and a maximum Mercalli intensity of VIII–IX (Severe–Violent). Its area of perceptibility included much of northern and central California and western Nevada. Damage amounted to $350,000 (about $10,700,000 inflation adjusted to 2018) and was most pronounced on Mare Island, a peninsula in northern San Francisco Bay. While relatively strong effects there were attributed to vulnerable buildings, moderate effects elsewhere in the San Francisco Bay Area consisted of damaged or partially collapsed structures, and there were media reports of a small tsunami and mostly mild aftershocks that followed.
The mechanism of the shock is unknown, but several independent investigations focused on different aspects to gain a better understanding of the intensity, magnitude, source fault, and epicenter of this pre-instrumental event. Most investigators placed it under or to the north of San Pablo Bay, though two earthquake catalogs gave specific coordinates that place it within the confines of the San Pablo Bay National Wildlife Refuge. One of the numerous strike-slip faults of the San Andreas Fault System in the North Bay are most often named as the source fault, but one seismologist's paper detailed how an unnamed dip-slip fault may have been responsible. Several more recent studies gave alternate perspectives that named specific faults as the origin.
The San Andreas Fault system (SAF) is a network of right-lateral strike-slip faults that form a portion of a complex and diffuse plate boundary. The faults span on and off shore along the California portion of the Pacific Rim, and in the area near San Francisco Bay, the extent of the various fault strands are limited to about 80 kilometers (50 mi) wide from east to west. This system of faults terminates in the north at the Mendocino Triple Junction where the north-northwest trending SAF meets the east trending Mendocino Fracture Zone. It terminates in the south in a more gradual fashion at the Salton Sea where displacement transitions to a series of transform faults and spreading centers along the Gulf of California Rift Zone.[6]
The shock was felt over an area of 120,000 km2, from Chico in the north to Monterey in the south, and to Carson City in western Nevada. Toppozada et al. 1992 compared the isoseismal map from the event to those of earthquakes that occurred during the instrumental period to resolve the magnitude. The intensity VI isoseismals for the 1969 Santa Rosa and 1984 Morgan Hill earthquakes were markedly smaller; only the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake covered a larger area than that of the 1898 event. The isoseismals for intensity V, VII, and VIII were also compared for additional calibration, and 6.7 was presented as the magnitude of the event, which was presumed to have occurred on the southern Rodgers Creek Fault. This estimate was later reduced to M6.4 in Toppozada & Branum 2002.[1][4][7]
Bakun 1999 also analyzed intensity details to resolve for magnitude and location, resulting in M6.3 and a location at the northeast end of San Pablo Bay. A technique called Bayesian inference used by Wesson, Bakun, & Perkins 2003 showed that the northern Hayward Fault was the most likely source, with the Rodgers Creek, southern Green Valley, Concord, and northern Green Valley faults as the next most likely. Media reports of a small non-destructive tsunami led Parsons et al. 2003 to conclude that a normal fault (rather than a strike-slip fault) may have been responsible for the shock. Another viewpoint from Hecker et al. 2005 was that the Rodgers Creek Fault was not likely the source because their trench investigation showed that its most recent event had a maximum slip of 2 m (6 ft 7 in) and that the 1898 event was too small to result in that much displacement.[8]
Another seismologist re-examined the event following the 2014 South Napa earthquake and found that the heavy effects on Mare Island were the result of weak or deficient buildings. Comparing the intensity distribution of the two shocks revealed that it was indeed severe on Mare Island as it was likely close to the rupture, which may have involved both strands of the Franklin Fault (between the West Napa and Rodgers Creek Faults). Although surface rupturing events have been documented on the Hayward–Rodgers Creek Fault System just to the west, no surface rupture was associated with this earthquake. A magnitude range of 5.8–6.4 Mw was given, with the lower bound representing an average stress drop event and the higher bound for a lower stress drop event.[3]
The isoseismal map from Toppozada & Real 1981 places the epicenter to the north of San Pablo Bay and shows elongated rings aligned NNW–SSE. The innermost intensity VIII (Severe) ring encompasses Vallejo, Mare Island, and much of San Pablo Bay, and also includes three instances of intensity IX (Violent), but the locations cannot be determined with accuracy due to a lack of map resolution. While San Francisco is within the intensity VII (Very strong) ring, Santa Cruz and San Jose are labeled intensity VI (Strong) exceptions within the intensity V (Moderate) ring. Ukiah, Stockton, Sacramento, and Gilroy also lay in the intensity V ring.[9]
Toppozada et al. 1992 presents an updated isoseismal map that focuses on the near field rather than an extended perspective, with slightly more conservative maximum intensities, and locations that are clearly labeled with specific intensities. The innermost isoseismal shows only one location that is an exception to intensity VIII. Tubbs Island, to the northwest of Mare Island, lists VIII–IX. Schellville, Lakeville, and Mare Island all show intensity VIII. A large number of locations are marked VI–VII, including Santa Rosa, San Rafael, Oakland, and San Francisco. As opposed to showing a specific epicenter, the newer, enhanced map shows that it may have been anywhere within a broad swath centered on the southern Rodgers Creek Fault.[4]
While the National Geophysical Data Center categorizes the overall effects of the event as moderate, significant damage occurred at the Mare Island Naval Shipyard, where several buildings suffered partial or total collapse and some equipment was damaged. Other strong effects occurred at Vallejo and to the southeast in Benicia, where a cannery was damaged and in Martinez where the courthouse was damaged. Other locations in Sonoma County that were severely affected included Schellville, Greenwood Estate, and near Petaluma Creek. The effects were less severe in San Francisco, but one building partially collapsed, a girls high school suffered damage valued at several thousand dollars, and soil conditions contributed to damage at the Whittier School.[1][10]
Bay Area newspapers reported on aftershocks that were felt in a number of locations. These shocks were only reported at locations that were within the intensity VII or higher isoseismals. The Sonoma Index-Tribune reported that at Sonoma there were four strong aftershocks and more than twenty lighter shocks (that at most just rattled windows) later that night. The San Francisco Call stated that while the aftershocks were heaviest near Tubbs Island, they were more frequent near Lakeville at the Petaluma marshes, and this was interpreted as the alluvium under the island suppressing the lighter shocks. Analysis of the severity, location, and frequency of the aftershocks bolstered Toppozada et al. 1992's stance that the origin of the mainshock was the southern Rodgers Creek Fault.[4]
Numerous bay area newspapers reported on various disturbances that were experienced by mariners. In the Pacific Ocean, vessels southeast of Point Reyes and near the Farallon Islands reported feeling the shock, and a sharp rise in sea level was reported in the San Francisco Bay and on the Napa River. Upon examination of the event, tsunami experts declared that while the Rodgers Creek Fault is primarily strike-slip, some vertical movement is possible, which is associated with tsunami generation. A five-point scale (0–4) was used to certify whether a tsunami event was legitimate. With 0 intended for "not a valid tsunami report" and 4 being "certainly a valid report", a score of 2 was assigned to the event, meaning that it was "possibly a valid report" based on insufficient information, nonexpert observations, and unclear descriptions.[5]
Thrum Hall was a rugby league stadium on Hanson Lane in Halifax, West Yorkshire, England. It was the home of Halifax for 112 years. The site on which the ground stood is now occupied by a supermarket.
In 1878, Halifax, who had just won the inaugural Yorkshire Cup, bought a patch of land for £3,000 from a local farmer, Major Dyson, to develop as a new multi-purpose sports ground. It was to be a replacement for their Hanson Lane ground which stood opposite.[1]
The site measured 55,000 square yards and included a cricket pitch and bowling greens.[2] The rugby stadium was opened on 18 September 1886 by Alderman Riley, who kicked off before the Halifax v Hull F.C. match. Forward Ernest Williamson scored the first try (his only try for Halifax) and the home side went on to win in front of a crowd of around 8,000.[1] As Thrum Hall was built on an old hilltop farm, it had a distinctive slope of 4 yards away from the main grandstand touchline.[3]
The ground was continuously developed over the next 40 to 50 years and it came to be regularly used as a neutral ground for Challenge Cup and Championship matches, including the 1914 Challenge Cup final (won by Hull) and the 1912, 1929 and 1930 Championship deciders.[4]
Thrum Hall was run by trustees from 1921.[5]
The attendance record of 29,153 was set in a third round Challenge Cup tie against Wigan on 21 March 1959. By the time of the Taylor Report, Thrum Hall's capacity was reduced to 9,832.[6]
Halifax was hit hard by the financial situation of the late 1960s, and 1970s. In 1970, a concert was held at Thrum Hall in an attempt to alleviate these financial troubles. Adverse weather conditions meant that only around 3,000 arrived to watch the 'Halifax Pop and Blues Concert' which made a loss of £6,000.[7]
The adjacent Thrum Hall Cricket Ground hosted four first class cricket matches between 1888 and 1897.[8] Yorkshire played three County Championship matches there, in July 1888 against Gloucestershire, August 1889 against Middlesex and Kent in June 1897, while they played Essex in a non-championship fixture in July 1894. Kent were bowled out for 74 in their match, with Bobby Peel taking 8 for 93. Peel also bowled Gloucestershire out for just 89, taking 7 for 39, in a low scoring match which Yorkshire won by 3 wickets.
The cricket ground had a speedway  track constructed around the outside of it in 1928 and it was known as the Thrum Hall Grounds by this time. It hosted speedway until 1930 when the new Halifax Greyhound Stadium was constructed on the site.[9][10][11]
Halifax sold Thrum Hall for £1.5 million to Asda for a superstore development in 1998, and moved across town to their present home, the Shay Stadium. The supermarket chain closed their existing store in Battinson Road, when the new store finally opened after a protracted legal battle in 2004.[12][13]
The final match to be played at the ground was on 22 March 1998 where Halifax defeated Leeds 35–28.[14]
The list of international rugby league matches played at Thrum Hall is:[15]
Thrum Hall also saw the Halifax R.L.F.C. play host to international touring teams from Australia (sometimes playing as Australasia) and New Zealand from 1907–1994.
Katharina Rapp (born 1948) is a German artist.
Katharina Rapp was born in war-torn southern Germany. After completing her high school education, she moved to Paris to study at the Sorbonne, then to London where she met her husband. She later moved to Switzerland, where she had two children, and to Scotland, where she had her third child. She then moved to Australia, where she still works as an artist today.
Her dominant medium is the oil painting, with over-the-top and humorous characterisation in vivid colours. Stylistically, she has been likened to the Dutch painter Kees van Dongen.
Homunculus, Vol. 2 is the fifth studio album by Peter Frohmader, released in 1987 by Multimood.[1]
All music is composed by Peter FrohmaderAdapted from the Homunculus, Vol. 2 liner notes.[2]
Erik Peterson Grandjean (7 June 1890 – 26 October 1960) was a German Catholic theologian, patrologist and   Church historian.
Erik Peterson was born in Hamburg. He studied theology from 1910 to 1914 in Strasbourg, Greifswald, Berlin, Basel and Göttingen, where he defended his doctoral dissertation in 1926.[1] He was initially an evangelical Christian influenced by pietism and Søren Kierkegaard. Through the influence of phenomenology in Göttingen, Edmund Husserl, Adolf Reinach, Hedwig Conrad-Martius, Hans Lipps, Theodor Haecker, Max Scheler, Carl Schmitt, Jacques Maritain and the Liturgical Movement, he opened up to the Catholic world. He converted to Catholicism in 1930 and settled in Munich then Rome.[1] In 1947 he became professor of Church history and patrology at the Pontifical Institute for Christian Archaeology in Rome. In 1960, the year of his death, he received honorary doctorates from the University of Bonn (Ph.D.) and the University of Munich (Th.D.).[2]
He wrote critically about National Socialism and its political theology as defined by Carl Schmitt, notably in the 1935 essay "Monotheism as a Political Problem". His most prominent theological writings are collected in Theological Tractates (German: Theologische Traktate; German 1951, English 2011) and meditative texts are found in Marginalien zur Theologie (1956).[1]
The LKL IV and LKL V were a pair of very similar Polish parasol wing two-seaters, built in the early 1930s. They differed primarily in their engines.
Members of the Lublin Airport Club (Lubelski Klub Lotnitczy in Polish, hence LKL) began to design a pair of parasol wing, two-seat aircraft for the Club's use in 1931. They differed chiefly in their engines and the lengths and the cowlings associated with them, though there were also undercarriage design variations. The LKL IV had a 63 kW (85 hp) aircooled, four-cylinder upright inline engine and was first flown in the autumn of 1932. The LKL V was powered by a 93 kW (125 hp) Warner Scarab seven-cylinder radial engine and flew a few weeks later.[1]
The wooden wing was rectangular in plan out to rounded tips and was in two parts, each  built around twin spars and fabric covered. They were braced by pairs of parallel faired struts from the lower fuselage longerons to the spars and the central join was held above the fuselage on a cabane of steel transverse inverted V-struts.[1]
Because the Cirrus was an upright engine, its enclosing cowling raised the nose ahead of the cockpit, though the underside sloped upwards. A long exhaust on the port side exited low on the fuselage under the wing. The radial Scarab of the LKL V allowed a lower nose; its cylinders were enclosed by a Townend ring-type housing. Because of the more compact radial, the LKL V was 270 mm (10.6 in) shorter than the LKL IV and was also  had a slightly lower (12 kg (26 lb)) empty weight.  Its greater power allowed an increase of (22 kg (49 lb)) in the loaded weight. Fuel tanks were in the fuselage.  Behind the engines the fuselages were rectangular in section, built around welded steel tube structures and largely fabric-covered. There were two tandem open cockpits with dual controls under the wing, which had a rounded cut-out in its trailing edge.[1]
Their tail surfaces were fabric-covered wooden framed structures. The tailplanes were mounted on top of the slender rear fuselage and strut-braced from below and their fins were small, with a cropped triangular profile and carrying full, rounded balanced rudders.  Both had divided-type, fixed, conventional landing gear with half-axles and with radius rods from the lower fuselage longerons. There were differences in the forward, shock absorbing legs; the LKL IV had oleo struts from the upper longerons and the LKL V had faired, compressed rubber legs from the bases of the forward wing struts.[1] In 1934 the LKL IV's undercarriage was shortened, though without changing the geometry.[1]
Both aircraft were used by the LKL for several years and flown in local competitions. Both took part in the second International Aviation meeting held in Warsaw in May 1933 where Zygmunt  Martiniak flew the LKL IV into second place and  in the Fifth National Lightplane Contest that September, where the LKL V, flown by  Kolaxzkowski, came ninth. The LKL V continued to fly until autumn 1936.[1][2]
Data from J. Cynk (1971)[1] except where notedGeneral characteristics
Performance
La Presse, founded in 1934, is a large-circulation French-language daily newspaper published in Tunis, Tunisia.[1]
La Presse de Tunisie was founded in 1934[2] by Henri Smadja, a Tunisian and French Jewish doctor and lawyer, born in Tunisia, who became the owner of the daily newspaper Combat. The paper, based in Tunis,[3] was close to the Constitutional Democratic Rally.[1] Its sister paper is Arabic newspaper Assahafah.[2] Before the 2010-2011 Tunisian protests La Presse de Tunisie was published by a state-owned publishing company.[4]
As a result of these protests, the newspaper transformed from being seen as propaganda for Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's government to having editorial independence from the government.[5] However, the owner of the daily is the government of Tunisia,[3][6] more specifically the state-owned company SNIPE.[2]
In addition, the president of the paper, Mohammad Nejib Ouerghi, worked for state-owned newspapers before the deportation of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.[7]
Cille Choirill is a 15th-century[1] Roman Catholic church situated in Glen Spean in Lochaber, Scotland. Dedicated to St Kerrill,[2] (also called "Cyril"),[3] it was possibly built by Cameron of Lochiel.
A probable reference to the church occurs in a papal supplication dated June 1466 when a priest asked for provision to the parish church of Lochaber and its chapel of 'Querelo'.[4] After lying roofless for some time, it was repaired in 1932/33 with financial support from Nova Scotian descendants of Lochaber emigrants.[1][5]
Situated in the Roman Catholic parish of St Margaret's, and the former civil parish of Kilmonivaig, it is used for mass once per month during the summer months.
The Gaelic poets Iain Lom and Dòmhnall Mac Fhionnlaigh nan Dàn are buried in the churchyard.[5]
56°53′28″N 4°46′52″W﻿ / ﻿56.891°N 4.781°W﻿ / 56.891; -4.781
"Short Cut" (ショートカット, Shōtokatto, "Short Haircut") is the 4th major single by the Japanese girl idol group S/mileage. It was released in Japan on February 9, 2011 on the label Hachama.
The physical CD single debuted at number 6 in the Oricon daily singles chart.
In the Oricon weekly chart, it debuted at number 5.[1]
The B-side of the regular edition was a cover of the song "Otome Pasta ni Kandō" by a Morning Musume subgroup called Tanpopo that released it as a single in 2000.
The single was released in five versions: four limited editions (Limited Editions A, B, C, and  D) and a regular edition.
All the limited editions came with a sealed-in serial-numbered entry card for the lottery to win a ticket to one of the single's launch events.
S/mileage members: 
All tracks are written by TsunkuAll tracks are written by Tsunku
The Leader Building is a 15-story high-rise building located at the southwest corner of Superior Avenue and East 6th Street in Downtown Cleveland, adjacent to the Cleveland Arcade and across the street from the Cleveland Public Library.
Completed in 1913, the Leader Building was built by industrialist Dan Hanna to house The Cleveland Leader, a Cleveland newspaper he had recently acquired.[1] The 199-foot (61 m), 322,600-square-foot (29,970 m2) structure was designed by architect Charles Adams Platt in the Beaux-Arts style, and features high-quality interior materials.[2] The limestone-clad building was also home to the Cleveland News, which Hanna owned as well. While The Cleveland Leader closed in 1917, the News continued to occupy a portion of the Leader Building until 1926.[2] Its upper stories were rented out as office space, and were popular among lawyers. For 60 years, the building's basement was home to the Colonnade Cafeteria.[2]
In 2014, the K & D Group acquired the building for $5.4 million.[3] At the time of the purchase, the Leader Building was operated as office space, and had a 60% occupancy rate. The K & D Group announced plans for a mixed-use renovation, and said they would convert a portion of the building to apartments.[4] When the renovations were completed in 2017, the company had converted the top 12 floors to apartments they named the Residences at the Leader. The ground floor remained as retail space and the second and third floors remained as offices.[5]
Daftah (Arabic: دفته) is a village near Masafi in the emirate of Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates (UAE). 
The village is located on the Masafi to Fujairah highway, which follows a route along the Wadi Ham (وادي حام). It is also located off the Sharjah-Khor Fakkan highway, constructed by contractor Halcrow.[1] The $1.6 billion road, opened in 2019, connects Daftah with Khor Fakkan through a series of five tunnels through the Hajar Mountains, passing the newly redeveloped village of Shis. These include the Al Sidra Tunnel, which at 2,700 metres, is the longest covered mountain tunnel in the Middle East.[2]
Although the village today is located along the roadside in a strip development, the old village of Daftah lies behind the new development, and was traditionally home to the Naqbiyin tribe.[3]
This United Arab Emirates location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sandboarding is a boardsport and extreme sport[1] similar to snowboarding that involves riding across or down a sand dune while standing on a board, either with both feet strapped in or while standing loose, without bindings. Sandboarding can also be practised sitting down or lying on the belly or the back. It typically involves a sandboard, although it is also possible to use sleds, surfboards, a skateboard deck, or snowboards.
Sandboarding has adherents throughout the world, but is most prevalent in desert areas or coastal areas with beach dunes. It is less popular than snowboarding, partly because it is very difficult to build a mechanised ski lift on a sand dune, meaning participants must walk or ride a dune buggy or all-terrain vehicle back to the top of the dune. On the other hand, dunes are normally available year-round as opposed to ski resorts, which are seasonal.
The sandboard base is much harder than a snowboard, and is built mostly out of formica or laminex with special base materials now being made, that will slide on wet and dry sand. To glide in the sand, the board bottom is often waxed, usually with a paraffin-based sandboard wax, before a run. Afterwards, the bottom of the board may have a lightly sanded look to it. Most terrain sandboards are composed of hardwood ply, while 'full-size' sandboards are a wood, fiber glass, and plastic composite. However, a snowboarding base will sometimes work on steeper dunes as well.[2]
Sandboarding is practised worldwide, with locations available on every continent except Antarctica. The World's Greatest Sandboarding Destinations lists sandboarding destinations in over 65 territories.[3] A global sandboarding locations map is also available on sand-boarding.com.[4]
Drorbamidbar has sandboarding in Israel at Negev Desert not far from Ashalim in Ramat HaNegev.
Little Sahara on Kangaroo Island in South Australia is a sand dune system roughly covering two square kilometres (0.77 sq mi). The highest dune is approximately 70 metres (230 ft) above sea level.
Lucky Bay, about 30 kilometres (19 mi) south of Kalbarri, in Western Australia, is another sandboarding hotspot. Sandboarding Tours are offered in the area.
The Stockton dunes, 2.3 hours north from Sydney. Stockton Bight Sand Dunes system is up to one kilometre (0.62 mi), 32 kilometres (20 mi) long, and covers an area of over 4,200 hectares (10,000 acres; 42,000,000 m2). The massive sand dunes climb up to 40 metres (130 ft) high. Located only minutes from the centre of Nelson Bay, it is the largest sand dune system in Australia.[5]
Sandboarding sites in Egypt include the Great Sand Sea near Siwa Oasis واحة سيوة in Egypt's Western Desert, the Qattaniya القطانية sand dunes (1.5 h drive on/off-road from Cairo), El Safra الصفراء and Hadudah هدودة dunes midway between Dahab and St. Catherine in Sinai.
Namibia features sand-skiing, which is similar to sandboarding, performed with skis instead of a board. Most of the sand-skiing is performed in the Namib desert dunes around Swakopmund and Walvis Bay. With a special permit it is sometimes possible to sand-ski at the world's highest dunes in Sossusvlei.[6] Henrik May, a German living in Namibia for some 10 years, set a Guinness World Record in speed sand-skiing on 6 June 2010. He reached a speed of 92.12 km/h (57.24 mph).[7]
After some pioneers like Derek Bredenkamp who boarded Swakopmund around 1974, commercial operators in South Africa began offering sandboarding to tourists in 1994.[8] In 2000 the Sandboarding South Africa league was established. 
Between 2002 and 2004 the South African Sandboarding League held competitions on the Matterhorn Dune located between Swakopmund and Walvis bay. Competition events included dual slalom, boarder cross and big air events. In 2005 and 2006 Alter Action held sandboarding competitions at Matterhorn but the competitions no longer formed part of the South African Sandboarding League during those years. The league collapsed, then the sport was revived again in 2007 with weekly sandboarding sessions in and around Cape Town and Gauteng.
Sand Master Park, located in Florence, Oregon USA is a dedicated sandboarding park, featuring 200 acres (81 ha; 810,000 m2) of sculpted sand dunes and a full-time pro shop. Dune Riders International is the governing body for competitive sandboarding worldwide and sanctions two events each season at Sand Master Park. Sand Master Park is also the factory outlet for the largest sandboard company in the world, Venomous Sandboards.
Coral Pink Sand Dunes State Park, near Kanab, Utah, permits sandboarding on roughly 2,000 acres of sand dunes within its boundaries.[9] Utah also contains sand dunes near Salt Lake City, Lake Powell, and Moab. Additionally, the company Slip Face Sandboards is based in Provo, Utah.
Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve near Alamosa, Colorado has sandboarding on what it calls the tallest dunes in North America.[10] Sandboarding and skiing are permitted anywhere on the dunefield away from vegetated areas.[11][12]
Peru is known for having large sand dunes in Ica, some reaching up to 2 km (1.2 miles). Duna Grande in Ica is the largest sand dune in the world. The Copa Sandboarding Perú (Peru – Sandboarding Cup) has been held near Paracas every year since 2009. Since 2017 the Sandboard World Cup is hosted in the region of Ica by InterSands. [13] There are also great dunes near the capital city (Lima) in Chilca. 
In Chile, sandboarding is practiced throughout the north of the country, including the Medanoso dunes in Copiapo (where the Dakar rally takes place), Puerto Viejo beach in Caldera, excellent dunes in Iquique, and some near Viña del Mar.
Nicaragua is home to Cerro Negro, the youngest volcano in Central America. Since it has steep slopes and volcanic sand, it is possible to sandboard down this active volcano.
A rather small sand mountain is the Monte Kaolino in Hirschau, Germany. Equipped with a 120-metre (390 ft) lift, it was the host of the annual Sandboarding World Championships until 2007.
The Dune of Pilat in France is an hours' drive from Bordeaux; it is the tallest dune in Europe, measuring 3 kilometres across, 500 metres wide and between 100 and 115 metres tall depending on the year.[14]
Amothines is a small desert five kilometres (3 mi) from Katalakkos village in Limnos, Greece. There are many sand dunes there, where people can practice sandboarding.
Wales is home to the village of Merthyr Mawr that is 2+1⁄2 miles (4 km) from the town of Bridgend, the village is close to a beach and it is home to the "Big Dipper", the second largest sand dune in Europe.[15]
Holywell, Cornwall is also home to a beach with a complex of sand dunes; in the summer and during peak times, local shops that cater for beach goers also sell sandboards.
The Braunton Burrows sand dunes on the Devon coast, was the filming location for where Alex Bird became the first sandboarder to be towed by a car on British shores.[16]
In the North East region of the United Kingdom, there is a small beach at Seaton Sluice where people can sandboard. This is a good alternative to sledding, as there is insufficient snow to support sledding there, even though the UK has a rather cold climate, with chilly winters and cool summers.
InterSands is a Swiss- found organisation to help the development of sandboarding. It supports sandboarding schools internationally with their social projects of teaching children Sandboarding and Sandskiing. Through the sport the children learn about the importance of a healthy lifestyle as well as the impact of their actions towards each other and the environment. 
Other than that, InterSands is the host of the Sandboard World Cup.
Michael Fredo is an American musician.[1] He is the nephew of fashion designer Tommy Hilfiger.[1]
In October 1999, Fredo's single "This Time Around" reached number 21 during its six weeks in the Billboard Hot 100 singles sales chart,[2] while he was opening for Britney Spears on her 1999 ...Baby One More Time Tour.[3] Michael is now living in the east upper side with his wife and son working in his new album with Sony Music. The album is being produced by Rick Rubin.

This article about a United States pop singer is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Przybiernowo [pʂɨbjɛrˈnɔvɔ] (German: Wendisch Pribbernow) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Brojce, within Gryfice County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-western Poland.[1] It lies approximately 5 kilometres (3 mi) west of Brojce, 8 km (5 mi) north-east of Gryfice, and 75 km (47 mi) north-east of the regional capital Szczecin.
The village has a population of 326.

This Gryfice County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ancyrocephalidae is a family of monogenean flatworms.[1] The family is considered as a "temporary name" in WorMS [1] but includes a large number of genera and species.
Sergio Los (born 1934 in Marostica, Veneto) is an Italian architect and educator. He is considered one of the main interpreters of the Regional Bioclimatic Architecture, a design philosophy developed during the seventies (1972–1979) at the University Iuav of Venice under the pressure of the environmental and energy crisis. He developed a locally rooted architecture that adapts to the regional circumstances and uses the natural energetic potentials, especially solar energy. Already in 1980 he was contributing to the organisation PLEA (Passive and Low Energy Architecture ),[1] that promotes sustainable architecture on a worldwide scale.[2]
His artistic formation took place at the University Iuav of Venice with Carlo Scarpa. Between 1964 and 1971 he was involved in a collaboration with Carlo Scarpa, working at the University Iuav of Venice and following many projects in his office. 
He wrote Carlo Scarpa Architetto Poeta, published in 1967, which was at that time the first book about Scarpa’s architecture. Involved in the Design Process Theories, he introduced in Italy the ideas of Christopher Alexander translating his Notes on the Synthesis of Form 1967, and the searches of the Cambridge University Martin Centre, editing and translating the book of L. March and P. Steadman The Geometry of Environment, 1974.
Between 1972 and 1979, he develops a regional bioclimatic approach to multi-scale architecture that drives him into designing and constructing some buildings and city plans. Through an experimental design and building activity, he deepen the concept of a sustainable resilient urban fabric, which is based on the network of civic architecture, aimed to produce a local microclimate in the open outdoor spaces. Having tested some realized projects his design solutions were confirmed and transferred through handbooks. He is involved in the development of lectures and a contribution to The Geography of Architecture (The Phaidon Atlas of Contemporary World Architecture).
In the last twenty years, he is involved in increasing the city’s communicative action, compared to the prevailing instrumental action of the actual metropolises. In his view the city is considered as a communicative system, analogous to the language and to other symbolic systems. The city operates for composing a common world, it becomes for its citizens a way of knowing, but sharing the construction of such knowledge. He is pursuing some cooperative design processes that deal with city plans aimed to activate a learning community. He thinks that only communities of citizens can pursue resilient, sustainable cities.
• Sergio Los is professor of Architectural Composition at the University Iuav of Venice, now retired.
• Between 1965 and 1971 he taught Interior Architecture at the University Iuav of Venice in Italy. 
• Between 1972 and 1978 he taught Town Design in the Department of Giancarlo De Carlo at the University Iuav of Venice, later between 1979 and 2000 he taught Architectural Composition, showing his main interest in Multi-Scale Architecture.
• From 1970 up to 2000 he is responsible of many research activities for MURST (it:Ministero dell'Università e della Ricerca), CNR/ENEA (Italy) PFE, EU, International Energy Agency, on the design of a sustainable multi-scale architecture, published in various books and magazines.
• In 1996 at Louvain la Neuve, he received the 13° PLEA (Passive and Low Energy Architecture) INTERNATIONAL AWARD [3] with Natasha F. Pulitzer, having pursued in research, teaching, and professional activity the integration of the art and the science of architecture.
• In 1998 at Florence, he received the WREN PIONEER AWARD,[4] for his contribution in the design of a renewable energy architecture.
• In 2003 at Berlin he received the European EUROSOLAS PRIZE,[5] for his career in Solar Architecture.
Ariaeus (fl. 401 BC – 394 BC) was a Persian general who fought alongside Cyrus the Younger at the Battle of Cunaxa and later was involved in the assassination of Tissaphernes.
Ariaeus appears in historic records in 401 BC, in Xenophon's description of the events leading up to the Battle of Cunaxa.  Xenophon noted that he was a friend of Cyrus and was said to be fond of young boys, which was why he was an intimate of the young Thessalian general Menon.[1]
At the Battle of Cunaxa, he was Cyrus' second in command and commanded the left.[2]  According to Ctesias, he was alongside Cyrus, when Cyrus succeeded in wounding Artaxerxes,[3] but this is unlikely. This would put him on the right alongside Cyrus, and Xenophon and Diodorus both agree he was on the left, which would have been some distance away.[4]
As soon as Ariaeus discovered that Cyrus was slain in battle, he retreated with the surviving Persian troops.[5]  After the battle, he offered to wait and return with the surviving Greek soldiers.   Clearchus, speaking on behalf of the Greek soldiers, who considered themselves the victors in the battle, sent him a message to offer him the throne of Persia,[6] but he declined.[7]  The Greeks then met up with Ariaeus and his Persian troops and they both agreed not to betray each other, and Ariaeus promised to lead them safely out of Persia.[8]
Subsequently, Tissaphernes, promising Artaxerxes he would destroy the Greek troops entirely, persuaded the king to come to terms with Ariaeus, if Ariaeus would help betray the Greeks.[9]  Tissaphernes met with Ariaeus and persuaded him to join him, and Tissaphernes and Ariaeus led the Greeks to believe that they and Artaxerxes were willing to make peace with them and lead them to safety.  Clearchus, Menon and three other generals (Agis of Arcadia, Socrates of Achaea and Proxenus of Boetia) along with 20 officers and some 200 troops later met with Tissaphernes on apparently cordial terms.  
At a given signal, the officers and as many of the troops as could be caught were killed and all the generals were captured.  They were then taken to Artaxerxes and killed.[10]   Some of the surviving soldiers found their way to the Greek encampment and, in response to their news,  the remaining Greeks started preparing to attack the Persians.  Ariaeus was immediately sent to assuage the Greeks.  Ariaeus told the Greeks that only Clearchus has been killed, for reason of treachery, and tried to persuade them to lay down their arms, which the Greeks were reluctant to do.[11]  The surviving Greeks eventually decided to leave the camp and find their way out of Persia and return to Greece.  Ariaeus joined Tissaphernes in an unsuccessful pursuit of the Greeks.
Ariaeus is next recorded in 395 BC when he was involved in the assassination of Tissaphernes.  Diodorus refers to him as a satrap, which is probably a mistake, since he appeared to be reporting to Tissaphernes,[12] who was the satrap of Sardis at that time.  Artaxerxes grew angry with Tissaphernes' incompetence in his battles with the Greeks, perhaps even suspecting him of betrayal, [13] and ordered his vizier Tithraustes to kill him.[14]  Ariaeus was ordered to assist.  So Ariaeus invited Tissaphernes to visit him at his residence in Colossae in Phrygia to discuss important business.  Tissaphernes was unsuspicious, leaving behind his bodyguard.  When he arrived, he set aside his sword and went into a bath.  Ariaeus' men seized him there and sent him to Tithraustes by covered carriage, where he was soon after beheaded.[15]
Tithraustes was given Tissaphernes' former satrapy of Sardis and when Tithraustes left to visit Artaxerxes in the late summer of 395 BC, he left Ariaeus and Passiphernes as generals in charge of Sardis.[16]  In the winter of 395-394 BC, Ariaeus was visited there by Spithridates,[17] who may have been trying to interest him in joining in rebellion against the king.[18]  Xenophon says that Spithridates put his trust in Ariaeus because he had already revolted against the king, which could have been a reference to Ariaeus' involvement in Cyrus the Younger's rebellion against Artaxerxes in 401 BC or perhaps may have suggested that Ariaeus was again in open rebellion.[19]
Diodorus Siculus, Bibliotheca historica XIV.26.1-5 & XIV.80.6-8
Hellenica Oxyrhynchia 19(22).3
Plutarch Life of Artaxerxes
Polyaenus, Stratagems of War VIII, 16
Xenophon, Anabasis I.8-II.6 & III.5; Hellenica IV.1.27
Bassett, Sherylee R. "Innocent Victims or Perjurers Betrayed? The Arrest of the Generals in Xenophon's 'Anabasis,'" The Classical Quarterly, New Series, 52: 2 (2002) pp 447–461
Bigwood, J. M.  "The Ancient Accounts of the Battle of Cunaxa," The American Journal of Philology, Vol. 104, No. 4 (Winter, 1983), pp. 340–357
Brown, Truesdell S. "Menon of Thessaly" Historia: Zeitschrift für Alte Geschichte, 35:4 (1986)  pp 387–404
Bruce, I. A. F.  An Historical Commentary on the "Hellenica Oxyrhynchia," Cambridge UP, 1967, p 92
Cambridge Ancient History, Vol 6: The Fourth Century BC, Cambridge UP, 1994, pp 71 & 78-79
Dandamaev, M.A.  A Political History of the Achaemenid Empire,  Trans. W.J. Vogelsang, Brill, 1989
Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, Ed. William Smith.
Grote, George.  History of Greece, vol 9, 1856
Peter Krentz, Xenophon: Hellenika II.3.11-IV.2.8, Warminster: Aris & Phillips, 1995, p 206
Westlake, H. D. "Diodorus and the Expedition of Cyrus," Phoenix, Vol. 41, No. 3 (Autumn, 1987), pp. 241–254
A meet-me room (MMR) is a place within a colocation center (or carrier hotel) where  telecommunications companies can physically connect to one another and exchange data without incurring local loop fees.[1] Services provided across connections in an MMR may be voice circuits, data circuits, or Internet Protocol traffic.
An MMR provides a safe production environment where the carrier handover point equipment can be expected to run on a 24/7 basis with minimal risk of interruption. It is typically located within the data center.
To interconnect, companies order a patch from their cage or suite to the MMR and then arrange for the organization running the facility to connect them together. These physical connections may be an optical fiber cable, coaxial cable, twisted pair, or any other networking medium.
Typically, a meet-me room will discourage or disallow customers from installing large amounts of equipment.  However, multiplexing equipment is often welcome in the meet-me room, so that a customer can have a single connection between the room and the rest of their equipment in the building, and the multiplexing equipment can then break that out to allow for direct, private connections to several other organizations present in the meet-me room.
An Internet exchange point can also be present in a meet-me room to allow many organizations in the meet-me room to interchange traffic without having to make physical interconnections between every possible pair of organizations.
Astrakhan Russian (Russian: Астраханский русский) is an umbrella term for the  regional varieties of the Russian language spoken in Astrakhan Oblast, a federal subject of Russia. Astrakhan Oblast is one of the most diverse parts of the country in terms of ethnic groups and languages. The major groups are ethnic Russians (61% of the population), Kazakhs (17%) and Tatars (7%), but many others are also present and influence the shared local identity, culture and language varieties.
Being a regional rather than linguistic unity, Astrakhan Russian is a term for a broad group of dialects varying between speakers depending on their ethnicity, native language, age, education, occupation, location within the region and other social factors. Nevertheless, they share certain traits and can be grouped into a few categories.
The main divide is that between Russians and people of other ethnic groups, as the speech of the latter is influenced by the vernacular languages of their communities. Astrakhan Russian as spoken by Kazakh people is noticeably influenced by the Kazakh language on most levels, and this is not limited to native Kazakh speakers. It is not uncommon for people of minority background to grow up in an ethnically and linguistically diverse town or city in the region speaking only Russian, but their Russian typically still has traces of their heritage language.
One of the things that unite Astrakhan Russian speakers of all ethnic backgrounds is a group of local words that do not exist in standard Russian and other Russian dialects or have different meanings in them. In many cases these words originate from Turkic languages. Here are some examples:
"People Will Say We're In Love" is a show tune from the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, Oklahoma! (1943). In the original Broadway production, the song was introduced by Alfred Drake and Joan Roberts.
The other characters think, correctly, that Laurey (Joan Roberts) and Curly (Alfred Drake) are in love. In this song they warn each other not to behave indiscreetly, lest people misinterpret their intentions.  Neither wants to admit to the other his or her true feelings.  Towards the end of the musical the characters reprise the number after becoming engaged, saying "Let people say we're in love."
This song has been covered by many people, including instrumental versions.  Three versions made the Top 40 charts: Bing Crosby & Trudy Erwin (#2),[1] Frank Sinatra (#3),[2] and The Ink Spots (#11).  
The list of covers includes:
In 1959 the British composer Peter Dickinson used part of the music in his Monologue for String Orchestra, principally the melodic line under the lyric "People will say we're in...".
This show tune-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Cell is a 64-bit multi-core microprocessor microarchitecture that combines a general-purpose PowerPC core of modest performance with streamlined coprocessing elements[2] which greatly accelerate multimedia and vector processing applications, as well as many other forms of dedicated computation.[2]
It was developed by Sony, Toshiba, and IBM, an alliance known as "STI". The architectural design and first implementation were carried out at the STI Design Center in Austin, Texas over a four-year period beginning March 2001 on a budget reported by Sony as approaching US$400 million.[3] Cell is shorthand for Cell Broadband Engine Architecture, commonly abbreviated CBEA in full or Cell BE in part.
The first major commercial application of Cell was in Sony's PlayStation 3 game console, released in 2006. In May 2008, the Cell-based IBM Roadrunner supercomputer became the first TOP500 LINPACK sustained 1.0 petaflops system.[4][5] Mercury Computer Systems also developed designs based on the Cell.
The Cell architecture includes a memory coherence architecture that emphasizes power efficiency, prioritizes bandwidth over low latency, and favors peak computational throughput over the simplicity of program code. For these reasons, Cell is widely regarded as a challenging environment for software development.[6] IBM provides a Linux-based development platform to help developers program for Cell chips.[7]
In mid-2000, Sony Computer Entertainment, Toshiba Corporation, and IBM formed an alliance known as "STI" to design and manufacture the processor.[8]
The STI Design Center opened in March 2001.[9] The Cell was designed over a period of four years, using enhanced versions of the design tools for the POWER4 processor. Over 400 engineers from the three companies worked together in Austin, with critical support from eleven of IBM's design centers.[9] During this period, IBM filed many patents pertaining to the Cell architecture, manufacturing process, and software environment. An early patent version of the Broadband Engine was shown to be a chip package comprising four "Processing Elements", which was the patent's description for what is now known as the Power Processing Element (PPE). Each Processing Element would contain 8 "Synergistic Processing Elements" (SPEs) on the chip. This chip package was supposed to run at a clock speed of 4 GHz and with 32 SPEs providing 32 gigaFLOPS each (FP8 quarter precision), the Broadband Engine was meant to have 1 teraFLOPS of raw computing power in theory.
The design with 4 PPEs and 32 SPEs was never realized. Instead, Sony and IBM only manufactured a design with one PPE and 8 SPEs. This smaller design, the Cell Broadband Engine or Cell/BE was fabricated using a 90 nm SOI process.[10]
In March 2007, IBM announced that the 65 nm version of Cell/BE was in production at its plant (at the time, now GlobalFoundries') in East Fishkill, New York,[10][11] with Bandai Namco Entertainment using the Cell/BE processor for their 357 arcade board as well as the subsequent 369.
In February 2008, IBM announced that it would begin to fabricate Cell processors with the 45 nm process.[12]
In May 2008, IBM introduced the high-performance double-precision floating-point version of the Cell processor, the PowerXCell 8i,[13] at the 65 nm feature size.
In May 2008, an Opteron- and PowerXCell 8i-based supercomputer, the IBM Roadrunner system, became the world's first system to achieve one petaFLOPS, and was the fastest computer in the world until third quarter 2009. The world's three most energy-efficient supercomputers, as represented by the Green500 list, are similarly based on the PowerXCell 8i.
In August 2009 the 45 nm Cell processor was introduced in concert with Sony's PlayStation 3 Slim.[14]
By November 2009, IBM had discontinued the development of a Cell processor with 32 APUs[15][16] but was still developing other Cell products.[17]
On May 17, 2005, Sony Computer Entertainment confirmed some specifications of the Cell processor that would be shipping in the then-forthcoming PlayStation 3 console.[18][19][20] This Cell configuration has one PPE on the core, with eight physical SPEs in silicon.[20] In the PlayStation 3, one SPE is locked-out during the test process, a practice which helps to improve manufacturing yields, and another one is reserved for the OS, leaving 6 free SPEs to be used by games' code.[21] The target clock-frequency at introduction is 3.2 GHz.[19] The introductory design is fabricated using a 90 nm SOI process, with initial volume production slated for IBM's facility in East Fishkill, New York.[10]
The relationship between cores and threads is a common source of confusion. The PPE core is dual threaded and manifests in software as two independent threads of execution while each active SPE manifests as a single thread. In the PlayStation 3 configuration as described by Sony, the Cell processor provides nine independent threads of execution.
On June 28, 2005, IBM and Mercury Computer Systems announced a partnership agreement to build Cell-based computer systems for embedded applications such as medical imaging, industrial inspection, aerospace and defense, seismic processing, and telecommunications.[22] Mercury has since then released blades, conventional rack servers and PCI Express accelerator boards with Cell processors.[22]
In the fall of 2006, IBM released the QS20 blade module using double Cell BE processors for tremendous performance in certain applications, reaching a peak of 410 gigaFLOPS in FP8 quarter precision per module. The QS22 based on the PowerXCell 8i processor was used for the IBM Roadrunner supercomputer. Mercury and IBM uses the fully utilized Cell processor with eight active SPEs. On April 8, 2008, Fixstars Corporation released a PCI Express accelerator board based on the PowerXCell 8i processor.[23]
Sony's high-performance media computing server ZEGO uses a 3.2 GHz Cell/B.E processor.
The Cell Broadband Engine, or Cell as it is more commonly known, is a microprocessor intended as a hybrid of conventional desktop processors (such as the Athlon 64, and Core 2 families) and more specialized high-performance processors, such as the NVIDIA and ATI graphics-processors (GPUs). The longer name indicates its intended use, namely as a component in current and future online distribution systems; as such it may be utilized in high-definition displays and recording equipment, as well as HDTV systems. Additionally the processor may be suited to digital imaging systems (medical, scientific, etc.) and physical simulation (e.g., scientific and structural engineering modeling). As used in the PlayStation 3 it has 250 million transistors.[24]
In a simple analysis, the Cell processor can be split into four components: external input and output structures, the main processor called the Power Processing Element (PPE) (a two-way simultaneous-multithreaded PowerPC 2.02 core),[25] eight fully functional co-processors called the Synergistic Processing Elements, or SPEs, and a specialized high-bandwidth circular data bus connecting the PPE, input/output elements and the SPEs, called the Element Interconnect Bus or EIB.
To achieve the high performance needed for mathematically intensive tasks, such as decoding/encoding MPEG streams, generating or transforming three-dimensional data, or undertaking Fourier analysis of data, the Cell processor marries the SPEs and the PPE via EIB to give access, via fully cache coherent DMA (direct memory access), to both main memory and to other external data storage. To make the best of EIB, and to overlap computation and data transfer, each of the nine processing elements (PPE and SPEs) is equipped with a DMA engine.  Since the SPE's load/store instructions can only access its own local scratchpad memory, each SPE entirely depends on DMAs to transfer data to and from the main memory and other SPEs' local memories. A DMA operation can transfer either a single block area of size up to 16KB, or a list of 2 to 2048 such blocks. One of the major design decisions in the architecture of Cell is the use of DMAs as a central means of intra-chip data transfer, with a view to enabling maximal asynchrony and concurrency in data processing inside a chip.[26]
The PPE, which is capable of running a conventional operating system, has control over the SPEs and can start, stop, interrupt, and schedule processes running on the SPEs. To this end, the PPE has additional instructions relating to the control of the SPEs. Unlike SPEs, the PPE can read and write the main memory and the local memories of SPEs through the standard load/store instructions. Despite having Turing complete architectures, the SPEs are not fully autonomous and require the PPE to prime them before they can do any useful work. As most of the "horsepower" of the system comes from the synergistic processing elements, the use of DMA as a method of data transfer and the limited local memory footprint of each SPE pose a major challenge to software developers who wish to make the most of this horsepower, demanding careful hand-tuning of programs to extract maximal performance from this CPU.
The PPE and bus architecture includes various modes of operation giving different levels of memory protection, allowing areas of memory to be protected from access by specific processes running on the SPEs or the PPE.
Both the PPE and SPE are RISC architectures with a fixed-width 32-bit instruction format. The PPE contains a 64-bit general-purpose register set (GPR), a 64-bit floating-point register set (FPR), and a 128-bit Altivec register set. The SPE contains 128-bit registers only. These can be used for scalar data types ranging from 8-bits to 64-bits in size or for SIMD computations on a variety of integer and floating-point formats. System memory addresses for both the PPE and SPE are expressed as 64-bit values for a theoretic address range of 264 bytes (16 exabytes or 16,777,216 terabytes). In practice, not all of these bits are implemented in hardware. Local store addresses internal to the SPU (Synergistic Processor Unit) processor are expressed as a 32-bit word. In documentation relating to Cell a word is always taken to mean 32 bits, a doubleword means 64 bits, and a quadword means 128 bits.
In 2008, IBM announced a revised variant of the Cell called the PowerXCell 8i,[27] which is available in QS22 Blade Servers from IBM. The PowerXCell is manufactured on a 65 nm process, and adds support for up to 32 GB of slotted DDR2 memory, as well as dramatically improving double-precision floating-point performance on the SPEs from a peak of about 12.8 GFLOPS to 102.4 GFLOPS total for eight SPEs, which, coincidentally, is the same peak performance as the NEC SX-9 vector processor released around the same time. The IBM Roadrunner supercomputer, the world's fastest during 2008–2009, consisted of 12,240 PowerXCell 8i processors, along with 6,562 AMD Opteron processors.[28] The PowerXCell 8i powered super computers also dominated all of the top 6 "greenest" systems in the Green500 list, with highest MFLOPS/Watt ratio supercomputers in the world.[29] Beside the QS22 and supercomputers, the PowerXCell processor is also available as an accelerator on a PCI Express card and is used as the core processor in the QPACE project.
Since the PowerXCell 8i removed the RAMBUS memory interface, and added significantly larger DDR2 interfaces and enhanced SPEs, the chip layout had to be reworked, which resulted in both larger chip die and packaging.[30]
While the Cell chip can have a number of different configurations, the basic configuration is a multi-core chip composed of one "Power Processor Element" ("PPE") (sometimes called "Processing Element", or "PE"), and multiple "Synergistic Processing Elements" ("SPE").[31] The PPE and SPEs are linked together by an internal high speed bus dubbed "Element Interconnect Bus" ("EIB").
The PPE[32][33][34] is the PowerPC based, dual-issue in-order two-way simultaneous-multithreaded CPU core with a 23-stage pipeline acting as the controller for the eight SPEs, which handle most of the computational workload. PPE has limited out of order execution capabilities; it can perform loads out of order and has delayed execution pipelines. The PPE will work with conventional operating systems due to its similarity to other 64-bit PowerPC processors, while the SPEs are designed for vectorized floating point code execution. The PPE contains a 32 KiB level 1 instruction cache, a 32 KiB level 1 data cache, and a 512 KiB level 2 cache. The size of a cache line is 128 bytes in all caches.[27]: 136–137, 141  Additionally, IBM has included an AltiVec (VMX) unit[35] which is fully pipelined for single precision floating point (Altivec 1 does not support double precision floating-point vectors.), 32-bit Fixed Point Unit (FXU) with 64-bit register file per thread, Load and Store Unit (LSU), 64-bit Floating-Point Unit (FPU), Branch Unit (BRU) and Branch Execution Unit(BXU).[32]
PPE consists of three main units: Instruction Unit (IU), Execution Unit (XU), and vector/scalar execution unit (VSU). IU contains L1 instruction cache, branch prediction hardware, instruction buffers, and dependency checking logic. XU contains integer execution units (FXU) and load-store unit (LSU). VSU contains all of the execution resources for FPU and VMX. Each PPE can complete two double-precision operations per clock cycle using a scalar fused-multiply-add instruction, which translates to 6.4 GFLOPS at 3.2 GHz; or eight single-precision operations per clock cycle with a vector fused-multiply-add instruction, which translates to 25.6 GFLOPS at 3.2 GHz.[36]
The PPE was designed specifically for the Cell processor but during development, Microsoft approached IBM wanting a high-performance processor core for its Xbox 360. IBM complied and made the tri-core Xenon processor, based on a slightly modified version of the PPE with added VMX128 extensions.[37][38]
Each SPE is a dual issue in order processor composed of a "Synergistic Processing Unit",[39] SPU, and a "Memory Flow Controller", MFC (DMA, MMU, and bus interface). SPEs do not have any branch prediction hardware (hence there is a heavy burden on the compiler).[40] Each SPE has 6 execution units divided among odd and even pipelines on each SPE : The SPU runs a specially developed instruction set (ISA) with 128-bit SIMD organization[35][2][41] for single and double precision instructions. With the current generation of the Cell, each SPE contains a 256 KiB embedded SRAM for instruction and data, called "Local Storage" (not to be mistaken for "Local Memory" in Sony's documents that refer to the VRAM) which is visible to the PPE and can be addressed directly by software. Each SPE can support up to 4 GiB of local store memory. The local store does not operate like a conventional CPU cache since it is neither transparent to software nor does it contain hardware structures that predict which data to load. The SPEs contain a 128-bit, 128-entry register file and measures 14.5 mm2 on a 90 nm process. An SPE can operate on sixteen 8-bit integers, eight 16-bit integers, four 32-bit integers, or four single-precision floating-point numbers in a single clock cycle, as well as a memory operation. Note that the SPU cannot directly access system memory; the 64-bit virtual memory addresses formed by the SPU must be passed from the SPU to the SPE memory flow controller (MFC) to set up a DMA operation within the system address space.
In one typical usage scenario, the system will load the SPEs with small programs (similar to threads), chaining the SPEs together to handle each step in a complex operation. For instance, a set-top box might load programs for reading a DVD, video and audio decoding, and display and the data would be passed off from SPE to SPE until finally ending up on the TV. Another possibility is to partition the input data set and have several SPEs performing the same kind of operation in parallel. At 3.2 GHz, each SPE gives a theoretical 25.6 GFLOPS of single-precision performance.
Compared to its personal computer contemporaries, the relatively high overall floating-point performance of a Cell processor seemingly dwarfs the abilities of the SIMD unit in CPUs like the Pentium 4 and the Athlon 64. However, comparing only floating-point abilities of a system is a one-dimensional and application-specific metric. Unlike a Cell processor, such desktop CPUs are more suited to the general-purpose software usually run on personal computers. In addition to executing multiple instructions per clock, processors from Intel and AMD feature branch predictors. The Cell is designed to compensate for this with compiler assistance, in which prepare-to-branch instructions are created. For double-precision floating-point operations, as sometimes used in personal computers and often used in scientific computing, Cell performance drops by an order of magnitude, but still reaches 20.8 GFLOPS (1.8 GFLOPS per SPE, 6.4 GFLOPS per PPE). The PowerXCell 8i variant, which was specifically designed for double-precision, reaches 102.4 GFLOPS in double-precision calculations.[42]
Tests by IBM show that the SPEs can reach 98% of their theoretical peak performance running optimized parallel matrix multiplication.[36]
Toshiba has developed a co-processor powered by four SPEs, but no PPE, called the SpursEngine designed to accelerate 3D and movie effects in consumer electronics.
Each SPE has a local memory of 256 KB.[43] In total, the SPEs have 2 MB of local memory.
The EIB is a communication bus internal to the Cell processor which connects the various on-chip system elements: the PPE processor, the memory controller (MIC), the eight SPE coprocessors, and two off-chip I/O interfaces, for a total of 12 participants in the PS3 (the number of SPU can vary in industrial applications). The EIB also includes an arbitration unit which functions as a set of traffic lights. In some documents, IBM refers to EIB participants as 'units'.
The EIB is presently implemented as a circular ring consisting of four 16-byte-wide unidirectional channels which counter-rotate in pairs. When traffic patterns permit, each channel can convey up to three transactions concurrently. As the EIB runs at half the system clock rate the effective channel rate is 16 bytes every two system clocks. At maximum concurrency, with three active transactions on each of the four rings, the peak instantaneous EIB bandwidth is 96 bytes per clock (12 concurrent transactions × 16 bytes wide / 2 system clocks per transfer). While this figure is often quoted in IBM literature, it is unrealistic to simply scale this number by processor clock speed. The arbitration unit imposes additional constraints.
IBM Senior Engineer David Krolak, EIB lead designer, explains the concurrency model:
A ring can start a new op every three cycles. Each transfer always takes eight beats. That was one of the simplifications we made, it's optimized for streaming a lot of data. If you do small ops, it does not work quite as well. If you think of eight-car trains running around this track, as long as the trains aren't running into each other, they can coexist on the track.[44]Each participant on the EIB has one 16-byte read port and one 16-byte write port. The limit for a single participant is to read and write at a rate of 16 bytes per EIB clock (for simplicity often regarded 8 bytes per system clock). Each SPU processor contains a dedicated DMA management queue capable of scheduling long sequences of transactions to various endpoints without interfering with the SPU's ongoing computations; these DMA queues can be managed locally or remotely as well, providing additional flexibility in the control model.
Data flows on an EIB channel stepwise around the ring. Since there are twelve participants, the total number of steps around the channel back to the point of origin is twelve. Six steps is the longest distance between any pair of participants. An EIB channel is not permitted to convey data requiring more than six steps; such data must take the shorter route around the circle in the other direction. The number of steps involved in sending the packet has very little impact on transfer latency: the clock speed driving the steps is very fast relative to other considerations. However, longer communication distances are detrimental to the overall performance of the EIB as they reduce available concurrency. 
Despite IBM's original desire to implement the EIB as a more powerful cross-bar, the circular configuration they adopted to spare resources rarely represents a limiting factor on the performance of the Cell chip as a whole. In the worst case, the programmer must take extra care to schedule communication patterns where the EIB is able to function at high concurrency levels.
David Krolak explained:
Well, in the beginning, early in the development process, several people were pushing for a crossbar switch, and the way the bus is designed, you could actually pull out the EIB and put in a crossbar switch if you were willing to devote more silicon space on the chip to wiring. We had to find a balance between connectivity and area, and there just was not enough room to put a full crossbar switch in. So we came up with this ring structure which we think is very interesting. It fits within the area constraints and still has very impressive bandwidth.[44]At 3.2 GHz, each channel flows at a rate of 25.6 GB/s. Viewing the EIB in isolation from the system elements it connects, achieving twelve concurrent transactions at this flow rate works out to an abstract EIB bandwidth of 307.2 GB/s. Based on this view many IBM publications depict available EIB bandwidth as "greater than 300 GB/s". This number reflects the peak instantaneous EIB bandwidth scaled by processor frequency.[45]
However, other technical restrictions are involved in the arbitration mechanism for packets accepted onto the bus. The IBM Systems Performance group explained:
Each unit on the EIB can simultaneously send and receive 16 bytes of data every bus cycle. The maximum data bandwidth of the entire EIB is limited by the maximum rate at which addresses are snooped across all units in the system, which is one per bus cycle. Since each snooped address request can potentially transfer up to 128 bytes, the theoretical peak data bandwidth on the EIB at 3.2 GHz is 128Bx1.6 GHz = 204.8 GB/s.[36]This quote apparently represents the full extent of IBM's public disclosure of this mechanism and its impact. The EIB arbitration unit, the snooping mechanism, and interrupt generation on segment or page translation faults are not well described in the documentation set as yet made public by IBM.[citation needed]
In practice, effective EIB bandwidth can also be limited by the ring participants involved. While each of the nine processing cores can sustain 25.6 GB/s read and write concurrently, the memory interface controller (MIC) is tied to a pair of XDR memory channels permitting a maximum flow of 25.6 GB/s for reads and writes combined and the two IO controllers are documented as supporting a peak combined input speed of 25.6 GB/s and a peak combined output speed of 35 GB/s.
To add further to the confusion, some older publications cite EIB bandwidth assuming a 4 GHz system clock. This reference frame results in an instantaneous EIB bandwidth figure of 384 GB/s and an arbitration-limited bandwidth figure of 256 GB/s.
All things considered the theoretic 204.8 GB/s number most often cited is the best one to bear in mind. The IBM Systems Performance group has demonstrated SPU-centric data flows achieving 197 GB/s on a Cell processor running at 3.2 GHz so this number is a fair reflection on practice as well.[36]
Cell contains a dual channel Rambus XIO macro which interfaces to Rambus XDR memory. The memory interface controller (MIC) is separate from the XIO macro and is designed by IBM. The XIO-XDR link runs at 3.2 Gbit/s per pin. Two 32-bit channels can provide a theoretical maximum of 25.6 GB/s.
The I/O interface, also a Rambus design, is known as FlexIO. The FlexIO interface is organized into 12 lanes, each lane being a unidirectional 8-bit wide point-to-point path. Five 8-bit wide point-to-point paths are inbound lanes to Cell, while the remaining seven are outbound. This provides a theoretical peak bandwidth of 62.4 GB/s (36.4 GB/s outbound, 26 GB/s inbound) at 2.6 GHz. The FlexIO interface can be clocked independently, typ. at 3.2 GHz. 4 inbound + 4 outbound lanes are supporting memory coherency.
Some companies, such as Leadtek, have released PCI-E cards based upon the Cell to allow for "faster than real time" transcoding of H.264, MPEG-2 and MPEG-4 video.[46]
On August 29, 2007, IBM announced the BladeCenter QS21. Generating a measured 1.05 giga–floating point operations per second (gigaFLOPS) per watt, with peak performance of approximately 460 GFLOPS it is one of the most power efficient computing platforms to date. A single BladeCenter chassis can achieve 6.4 tera–floating point operations per second (teraFLOPS) and over 25.8 teraFLOPS in a standard 42U rack.[47]
On May 13, 2008, IBM announced the BladeCenter QS22. The QS22 introduces the PowerXCell 8i processor with five times the double-precision floating point performance of the QS21, and the capacity for up to 32 GB of DDR2 memory on-blade.[48]
IBM has discontinued the Blade server line based on Cell processors as of January 12, 2012.[49]
Several companies provide PCI-e boards utilising the IBM PowerXCell 8i. The performance is reported as 179.2 GFlops (SP), 89.6 GFlops (DP) at 2.8 GHz.[50][51]
Sony's PlayStation 3 video game console was the first production application of the Cell processor, clocked at 3.2 GHz and containing seven out of eight operational SPEs, to allow Sony to increase the yield on the processor manufacture. Only six of the seven SPEs are accessible to developers as one is reserved by the OS.[21]
Toshiba has produced HDTVs using Cell. They presented a system to decode 48 standard definition MPEG-2 streams simultaneously on a 1920×1080 screen.[52][53] This can enable a viewer to choose a channel based on dozens of thumbnail videos displayed simultaneously on the screen.
IBM's supercomputer, IBM Roadrunner, was a hybrid of General Purpose x86-64 Opteron as well as Cell processors. This system assumed the #1 spot on the June 2008 Top 500 list as the first supercomputer to run at petaFLOPS speeds, having gained a sustained 1.026 petaFLOPS speed using the standard LINPACK benchmark. IBM Roadrunner used the PowerXCell 8i version of the Cell processor, manufactured using 65 nm technology and enhanced SPUs that can handle double precision calculations in the 128-bit registers, reaching double precision 102 GFLOPs per chip.[54][55]
Clusters of PlayStation 3 consoles are an attractive alternative to high-end systems based on Cell blades. Innovative Computing Laboratory, a group led by Jack Dongarra, in the Computer Science Department at the University of Tennessee, investigated such an application in depth.[56] Terrasoft Solutions is selling 8-node and 32-node PS3 clusters with Yellow Dog Linux pre-installed, an implementation of Dongarra's research.
As first reported by Wired on October 17, 2007,[57] an interesting application of using PlayStation 3 in a cluster configuration was implemented by Astrophysicist Gaurav Khanna, from the Physics department of University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, who replaced time used on supercomputers with a cluster of eight PlayStation 3s. Subsequently, the next generation of this machine, now called the PlayStation 3 Gravity Grid, uses a network of 16 machines, and exploits the Cell processor for the intended application which is binary black hole coalescence using perturbation theory. In particular, the cluster performs astrophysical simulations of large supermassive black holes capturing smaller compact objects and has generated numerical data that has been published multiple times in the relevant scientific research literature.[58] The Cell processor version used by the PlayStation 3 has a main CPU and 6 SPEs available to the user, giving the Gravity Grid machine a net of 16 general-purpose processors and 96 vector processors. The machine has a one-time cost of $9,000 to build and is adequate for black-hole simulations which would otherwise cost $6,000 per run on a conventional supercomputer. The black hole calculations are not memory-intensive and are highly localizable, and so are well-suited to this architecture. Khanna claims that the cluster's performance exceeds that of a 100+ Intel Xeon core based traditional Linux cluster on his simulations. The PS3 Gravity Grid gathered significant media attention through 2007,[59] 2008,[60][61] 2009,[62][63][64] and 2010.[65][66]
The computational Biochemistry and Biophysics lab at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra, in Barcelona, deployed in 2007 a BOINC system called PS3GRID[67] for collaborative computing based on the CellMD software, the first one designed specifically for the Cell processor.
The United States Air Force Research Laboratory has deployed a PlayStation 3 cluster of over 1700 units, nicknamed the "Condor Cluster", for analyzing high-resolution satellite imagery. The Air Force claims the Condor Cluster would be the 33rd largest supercomputer in the world in terms of capacity.[68] The lab has opened up the supercomputer for use by universities for research.[69]
With the help of the computing power of over half a million PlayStation 3 consoles, the distributed computing project Folding@home has been recognized by Guinness World Records as the most powerful distributed network in the world. The first record was achieved on September 16, 2007, as the project surpassed one petaFLOPS, which had never previously been attained by a distributed computing network. Additionally, the collective efforts enabled PS3 alone to reach the petaFLOPS mark on September 23, 2007. In comparison, the world's second-most powerful supercomputer at the time, IBM's Blue Gene/L, performed at around 478.2 teraFLOPS, which means Folding@home's computing power is approximately twice Blue Gene/L's (although the CPU interconnect in Blue Gene/L is more than one million times faster than the mean network speed in Folding@home). As of May 7, 2011, Folding@home runs at about 9.3 x86 petaFLOPS, with 1.6 petaFLOPS generated by 26,000 active PS3s alone.
IBM announced on April 25, 2007, that it would begin integrating its Cell Broadband Engine Architecture microprocessors into the company's System z line of mainframes.[70] This has led to a gameframe.
The architecture of the processor makes it better suited to hardware-assisted cryptographic brute-force attack applications than conventional processors.[71]
Due to the flexible nature of the Cell, there are several possibilities for the utilization of its resources, not limited to just different computing paradigms:[72]
The PPE maintains a job queue, schedules jobs in SPEs, and monitors progress. Each SPE runs a "mini kernel" whose role is to fetch a job, execute it, and synchronize with the PPE.
The mini kernel and scheduling is distributed across the SPEs. Tasks are synchronized using mutexes or semaphores as in a conventional operating system. Ready-to-run tasks wait in a queue for an SPE to execute them. The SPEs use shared memory for all tasks in this configuration.
Each SPE runs a distinct program. Data comes from an input stream and is sent to SPEs. When an SPE has terminated the processing, the output data is sent to an output stream.
This provides a flexible and powerful architecture for stream processing, and allows explicit scheduling for each SPE separately. Other processors are also able to perform streaming tasks but are limited by the kernel loaded.
In 2005, patches enabling Cell support in the Linux kernel were submitted for inclusion by IBM developers.[73] Arnd Bergmann (one of the developers of the aforementioned patches) also described the Linux-based Cell architecture at LinuxTag 2005.[74] As of release 2.6.16 (March 20, 2006), the Linux kernel officially supports the Cell processor.[75]
Both PPE and SPEs are programmable in C/C++ using a common API provided by libraries.
Fixstars Solutions provides Yellow Dog Linux for IBM and Mercury Cell-based systems, as well as for the PlayStation 3.[76] Terra Soft strategically partnered with Mercury to provide a Linux Board Support Package for Cell, and support and development of software applications on various other Cell platforms, including the IBM BladeCenter JS21 and Cell QS20, and Mercury Cell-based solutions.[77] Terra Soft also maintains the Y-HPC (High Performance Computing) Cluster Construction and Management Suite and Y-Bio gene sequencing tools. Y-Bio is built upon the RPM Linux standard for package management, and offers tools which help bioinformatics researchers conduct their work with greater efficiency.[78] IBM has developed a pseudo-filesystem for Linux coined "Spufs" that simplifies access to and use of the SPE resources. IBM is currently maintaining a Linux kernel and GDB ports, while Sony maintains the GNU toolchain (GCC, binutils).[79]
In November 2005, IBM released a "Cell Broadband Engine (CBE) Software Development Kit Version 1.0", consisting of a simulator and assorted tools, to its web site. Development versions of the latest kernel and tools for Fedora Core 4 are maintained at the Barcelona Supercomputing Center website.[80]
In August 2007, Mercury Computer Systems released a Software Development Kit for PlayStation 3 for High-Performance Computing.[81]
In November 2007, Fixstars Corporation released the new "CVCell" module aiming to accelerate several important OpenCV APIs for Cell. In a series of software calculation tests, they recorded execution times on a 3.2 GHz Cell processor that were between 6x and 27x faster compared with the same software on a 2.4 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo.[82]
In October 2009, IBM released an OpenCL driver for POWER6 and CBE. This allows programs written in the cross-platform API to be easily run on Cell PSE.[83]
Illustrations of the different generations of Cell/B.E. processors and the PowerXCell 8i. The images are not to scale; All Cell/B.E. packages measures 42.5×42.5 mm and the PowerXCell 8i measures 47.5×47.5 mm.
Baratili San Pietro (Sardinian: Boàtiri) is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Oristano in the Italian region Sardinia, located about 100 kilometres (62 miles) northwest of Cagliari and about 11 km (7 mi) north of Oristano. As of 31 December 2004, it had a population of 1,278 and an area of 6.0 square kilometres (2.3 square miles).[3]
Baratili San Pietro borders the following municipalities: Nurachi, Oristano, Riola Sardo, San Vero Milis, Zeddiani.

This Sardinia location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Turismo Carretera (Road racing, lit., Road Touring) is a popular stock car racing series in Argentina, and the oldest auto racing series still active in the world. The series is organized by Asociación Corredores de Turismo Carretera.
The first TC competition took place in 1937 with 12 races, each in a different province. Future Formula One star Juan Manuel Fangio (Chevrolet) won the 1940 and 1941 editions of the TC. It was during this time that the series' Chevrolet-Ford rivalry began, with Ford acquiring most of its historical victories.
Until the 1960s, the majority of races were held on temporarily closed roads (hence the series' name). These improvised circuits would often present a combination of dirt and asphalt surfaces unlike those of dedicated race tracks, and in the early years consisted of both circuit races and stage races. The last street circuit event held by the series was the 1997 season-opener in Santa Teresita, with the championship phasing out road races on safety grounds.
During the 1960s the category began employing high-end technologies, with local manufacturers investing heavily for prestige. Ford Motor Argentina and Chevrolet were main contenders, with Dodge to a lesser degree. The European brand Renault, which had merged with Industrias Kaiser Argentina and thus inherited the Rambler range, was also a contender.
In the 1970s, the Sport Prototipo (modified cars in the Gran Turismo vein) category was spun off TC to allow TC to return to its stock-car roots which made it immensely popular with small-town audiences. The spin-off withered away slowly. A second spin-off was TC 2000 Championship in the 1980s which allowed the showcasing of the smaller cars most Argentines were driving, thus including Peugeot, Renault, Fiat and Volkswagen, and later, Japanese brands as well. TC 2000 soon became as popular as TC itself.
In later years, and to preserve its main draw, TC has been clinging to the older models that have mostly gone out of use in Argentine roads, and incorporated imported engines. In 2024, the series will switch to modern American pony cars.[1]
Brands in TC still have huge fan bases, with Ford and Chevrolet being the largest. General Motors decided to end manufacturing Chevy Coupé SS (Chevrolet Nova) in Argentina in 1977. Dodge and IKA-Torino are the other two participants with wins in TC.
There are currently four tiers on the Turismo Carretera ladder. The top rung is Turismo Carretera itself, followed by TC Pista as the second division (established in 1995), TC Mouras as the third division (established in 2004 and named after driver Roberto Mouras) and TC Pista Mouras as the fourth division (established in 2008). Pista Mouras is considered the first step for drivers from regional race series to compete nationally.
A fifth category, TC Pick Up, was introduced in 2017 as an alternative rung on the ladder whilst creating a platform for manufacturers to advertise their light commercial trucks.
Since 2008, Turismo Carretera has held a NASCAR-style "playoff" format alongside its regular championship to decide the champion.
Called the Copa de Oro ("Gold Cup"), the playoffs are typically held over the final five events of a season (three in the COVID-affected 2020 season). The top twelve drivers in the championship after the final round before the playoffs make the cut. All drivers start on zero points, however the championship leader will receive a bonus 15 starting points, and every driver that won an event 'Final' (see below) will receive an additional 8 starting points per win. Ahead of the final round of the season, the top three drivers in the regular standings that did not qualify for the playoffs will be admitted along with the points they scored over the previous four rounds (two in 2020). No bonus points will be awarded to these "last chance qualifiers".
Drivers that qualify for the Copa de Oro are differentiated from regular competitors by running gold numbers on the rear-passenger windows and gold paint on the front undertray.[2]
In modern Turismo Carretera, there are "normal races" and "special races" in each season.
The "normal races" have a format of one qualifying session (held on Saturday) and four races (held on Sunday) per weekend. The first three races – called Series (Heats) – split the field into three separate groups, which are formed from the results of qualifying. The fastest qualifier occupies first place in Heat 1, the second-fastest qualifier occupies first place in Heat 2, and third in Heat 3. The fourth-fastest driver in qualifying occupies second place on the grid in Heat 1, and so on until the entire field is divided into three.[3]
Each heat race is a five-lap sprint and defines the grid positions for the final race (or Final), usually held over 25 laps held in the afternoon. The winners of the three heats occupy the first three positions on the grid, in order of fastest to slowest race time. This process is then followed for the rest of the grid, with the order determined by first a drivers' heat position and then their race time. Drivers who did not finish on the lead lap in their heat race will be moved to the rear of the field for the Final, and their order will be determined by how many laps they complete in the Heats, followed by their race position and then their race time.[3]
In addition, there can be up to four "special races" (carreras especiales) held in the regular season before the playoffs. In 2023, three special races were held: one with a mandatory pitstop for refueling in La Pampa, the Carrera de los Milliones in Rafaela with a special monetary prize for the winner, and the Desafío de las Estrellas in Villicum where the grid is determined by a lottery and there are two mandatory stops to change tyres and refuel. Additionally, there is a Special Races Tournament (Torneo de Carreras Especiales) that gives the winner the opportunity to qualify for the playoffs if they have not made it through via their position the regular season standings.[4][5]
The circuits in 2023:
The Dodge GTX and IKA Torino were originally equipped with Slant Six and Tornado engines respectively. In the mid-1990s, both moved to Chrysler Cherokee engines. The Toyota has exclusively run with a Cherokee engine since its' original homologation in 2022.
Paul Worley (born February 16, 1950[1] in Nashville, Tennessee[2]) is an American record producer and session guitarist, known primarily for his work in country music. Formerly a vice president at Sony BMG,[3] he later joined the staff of Warner Bros. Records' Nashville division as chief creative officer.[4] Since leaving Warner in the early 2000s, Worley has worked mainly as a record producer for other acts, such as Big & Rich, as well as an occasional session guitarist.  He is most widely known as the co- producer (with Victoria Shaw) of the self-titled debut album of Lady Antebellum (2008) and as one of the producers of their second album, Need You Now (2010). He also discovered the Dixie Chicks and, with Blake Chancey, co-produced their first two albums.
Worley was born in Nashville in 1950.  He graduated from Vanderbilt University with a degree in philosophy.[2]
Paul Worley began his career in the late 1970s as a session guitarist in Nashville, Tennessee. On the recommendation of record producer Jim Ed Norman, he first played guitar on albums by Janie Fricke, Eddy Raven, and Mickey Gilley.[1] Worley's first production credits included Riders in the Sky's Three on the Trail (1976) and Gary Morris' Why Lady Why (1983).[5] Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Worley has produced or co-produced several country music albums, primarily by country music artists.[1]
Through his association with the Dixie Chicks, Worley earned two Grammy Awards for Best Country Album, both times for albums recorded by the Dixie Chicks: 1998's Wide Open Spaces and 1999's Fly.[6][7] Worley also played guitar on the Chicks' debut single "I Can Love You Better".
After becoming chief creative officer at Warner Bros. Records in 2002, Worley helped to sign Big & Rich, a country music duo composed of Big Kenny and John Rich.[8]
Worley left Warner Bros. after the label did not sign Lady Antebellum, despite Worley's encouragement.  When the band signed with Capitol Records, Worley left Warner Bros. in order to produce the band.[2]  In early 2011, Worley shared with Lady Antebellum in four of the 2010 Grammy Awards:  Best Country Album, Record of the Year, Song of The Year, and Best Country Song.
In addition to Morris, the Dixie Chicks, and Lady Antebellum, Worley has produced or co-produced albums and singles by Marie Osmond, the Desert Rose Band, Highway 101, Martina McBride, The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, Collin Raye, Sara Evans, The Band Perry, and Jennette McCurdy.
Along with Wally Wilson and two other partners, Worley founded a publishing company known as Skyline Music Publishing.[3] Among the songwriters that have been signed to Skyline are Hugh Prestwood (who wrote Randy Travis' Number One single "Hard Rock Bottom of Your Heart"), Tammy Hyler (who has written for Collin Raye), and Russ Titelman.[9] In 2012, Skyline writer Jon Stone co-wrote the SESAC Song Of The Year, "A Woman Like You," recorded by Curb Records artist Lee Brice.[10] Also in 2012, Skyline writers The Henningsens were awarded BMI awards for two singles recorded by Valory Music Group's The Band Perry, "You Lie" and "All Your Life." Worley also produced The Henningsen's debut album, which is set to be released by Sony Music Nashville in 2013.[11]
In 2010, Worley, Wilson, and Skyline partner Glen Morgan formed the independent record label Skyville Records. The label's first release was Stealing Angels later that year.[12] In 2011, Skyville signed a distribution deal with Sony Music Nashville.[13] Skyville currently specializes in artist development, working with up-and-coming talent in various capacities, including production, music publishing, and artist management.
Brustiano faux is an indigenous French wine grape that is no longer in cultivation in France as of 2010.[1] The variety is currently preserved by the Centre de Ressources Biologiques de la Vigne, a division of the INRA in France.[2]
Despite its unknown origins and complete disappearance from the vineyard, it is the male progenitor of the two very important modern commercial varieties Macabeu and Xarel·lo as well as the rarer variety Plant de Cervera, all originating in Catalonia from crossings with the female vine Hebén.[1][3]

This wine grape–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Alfred Croisetière (July 21, 1922 – October 17, 2014) was a Canadian politician and a two-term Member of the Legislative Assembly of Quebec.[1]
He was born on July 21, 1922, in Winooski, Vermont.
Croisetière ran as a Union Nationale candidate in the 1962 election in the provincial district of Iberville.  He lost against Liberal incumbent Laurent Hamel.
He was elected in the 1966 election and was re-elected in the 1970 election.  He served as his party's Deputy House Whip from 1966 until his defeat against Liberal candidate Jacques-Raymond Tremblay in the 1973 election.
Croisetière served as a city councillor in Iberville, Montérégie from 1975 to 1983.

This article about a Member of the National Assembly of Quebec from the Union Nationale is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
August "Gus" Voerg (June 7, 1870 – April 21, 1944), also known as Gustav Voerg, was an American rower who competed in the 1904 Summer Olympics.[1]
In 1904 he was part of the American boat which won the bronze medal in the coxless four.[2]

This rowing-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Pukarani (Aymara pukara fortress,[2] -ni a suffix, "the one with a fortress", also spelled Pucarani) is a mountain in the Bolivian Andes which reaches a height of approximately 4,060 m (13,320 ft). It is located in the Potosí Department, Antonio Quijarro Province, Porco Municipality.[1][3]

This Potosí Department location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Porferio Tirador "Gopher" Armstrong (May 8, 1935 – March 17, 2010), sometimes called Theodore Armstrong, was a Cheyenne-Caddo painter from Clinton, Oklahoma.[1][2] Armstrong had a keen interest in art since elementary school. He studied at the Concho Indian School and has exhibited his work across the country.[1] Some of his works are in the permanent collection of institutions including the Oklahoma Historical Society Museum[1] and the Joslyn Art Museum.[3]
Armstrong served in the United States Marine Corps for three years during WWII. He married Dola Jean Tartsah (from the Kiowa tribe) in 1961.[1] He died on March 17, 2010, and is buried in the Concho Cemetery, Concho, Oklahoma.[4]

This biographical article about an Indigenous person of North America is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Jamshedpur LGBTQ Pride has been held in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, India since 2018. The pride march is organised by Utthaan JSR.[1][2]
The first pride march in Jamshedpur was held on April 7, 2018.[3] The march started from Basant Talkies in Sakchi and ended at Jubilee Park.[4] Around 75 people took part in the march. The march had participants from West Bengal, Odisha and other parts of Jharkhand. The marchers demanded removal of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code.[2]
The second Jamshedpur LGBTQ Pride was held on April 7, 2019.[1] 50-60 people participated in the event.[1] The march started from Bistupur in front of P&M Hi-tech City Centre and ended at Gopal Maidan.[5] The march was supported by Mumbai based organisation Humsafar Trust. A street play to spread awareness about decriminalisation of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code was organised by Srijan Bharti.[6][5]

This article about a lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender-related festival or event is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Jharkhand-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Fujiwara no Tadazane (藤原 忠実, 1078 – July 31, 1162) was a Japanese noble, the son of Fujiwara no Moromichi and the grandson of Fujiwara no Morozane. He was the father of Fujiwara no Tadamichi.[1] He built a villa, Fukedono, north of the Byōdō-in Temple in 1114.
This biography of a Japanese noble is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Caterpillar C175 is a family of diesel internal combustion engines made by Caterpillar. The engine is 5.3 litres per cylinder in displacement. The cylinder size is 6.89 x 8.66 bore/stroke. The engine can produce 1500-4800 horsepower at 1800 RPM. The peak torque occurs at an engine speed of 1500 RPM. The engine weighs over ten tonnes. The Cat C175 is often used in locomotives, passenger-class ships and Caterpillar haul trucks like the 793F and 797F.
This diesel locomotive-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A list of films produced in Egypt in 1958. For an A-Z list of films currently on Wikipedia, see Category:Egyptian films.
Holly Raser is a Democratic Party member of the Montana House of Representatives, representing District 98 since 2000. She ran for Montana State Superintendent of Public Instruction in 2008.

This article about a Montana politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
General Wilson Mbasu Mbadi is a senior military officer in the Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF). He currently serves as the Chief of Defense Forces, the highest position in Uganda's military. He was appointed to that position on 24 June 2021, replacing General David Muhoozi, who was appointed State Minister of Internal Affairs.[1][2]
Previously, from January 2017 until June 2021, at the rank of Lieutenant General, he served as the Deputy Chief of Defense Forces, replacing Lieutenant General Charles Angina, who became Deputy Commander of Operation Wealth Creation.[3] Immediately prior to his current position, from May 2013 until January 2017, he served as the Joint Chief of Staff of the UPDF, where he was replaced by Major General Joseph Musanyufu.[4]
He was born on 6 June 1962 in Kasese District.[5]
Wilson Mbadi joined the Uganda military in 1986. In 1991, he was commissioned, following the completion of a one-year Officer Cadet course at Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, in the United Kingdom. While at Sandhurst, he graduated at the top of his class. In 1992, he attended the Platoon Commander's Course at the Uganda School of Infantry, at that time located in Jinja. In 1994, he attended the Uganda Junior Staff College, also at Jinja.[6]
In 1998, Mbadi attended the Mobile International Defence Management Course, in Lusaka, Zambia. Also in 1998, he attended the Company Command Course in Tanzania. In 2001, he attended the Combat Group Command Course at Armored Corps Center and School, in Ahmadnagar, India, doing very well. In 2004, he attended the Senior Command and Staff Course at National Defence College, Kenya (NDCK). Also in 2004, Wilson Mbadi completed the Peace Support Operations Course (PSTC) at Karen, Kenya.[6]
In 2005, he successfully completed a Diploma course in Strategic Studies at the University of Nairobi. In 2007, he graduated with a master's degree in Strategic Studies from the Air War College at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama, United States of America.[5]
From 1987 until 1989, he served as a Junior Non commissioned Instructor at Kaweweta and Kabamba Recruit Training Schools. In 1991, he was the Officer in charge of Career Planning. He then served as the Director of Supplies in 1997/8 and Armoured Brigade Logistics Officer and Brigade Administrative Officer in 1999 and 2000 respectively. In 2001, he served as the Directing Staff, at the Uganda Junior Staff College in Jinja before becoming 503 Infantry Brigade Operations and Training officer in 2001/2002. Between 2002 and 2003, he served as the Armoured Brigade Operations and Training Officer before commanding the Armoured Brigade, in an acting capacity. In 2005, the took full command of the 507 Brigade before becoming the Principal Air Staff Officer (Personnel and Administration) at Uganda Peoples Defence Air Force HQs in 2006. In 2007, he became Aide-de-Camp (ADC) to the President of Uganda, serving in that capacity until December 2012 when he was appointed Commander of the 4th Infantry Division of UPDF, based in Gulu. In May 2013, he was appointed Joint Chief of Staff of the UPDF.[5][6][7]
General Wilson Mbadi is also the Inspector General of UPDF and  Chairman of UPDF Medals Committee, UPDF Dress committee, Defence Forces Dutyfree Shop Board of Directors, Senior Command and Staff College Control Board, Uganda National Defence College Steering Committee, MoDVA Projects Preparation Committee and a member of Kyoga Dynamics Board of Directors. Gen. Mbadi is also a member of the Standard Gauge Railway Board of Directors (2015–2018). He served also as the Chairman of Uganda Military Engineering College and a member of the board of directors of the National Enterprise Corporation Limited (2013–2016). He is married with children. He is of the Christian faith.[6]
William Bottlesham was a medieval Bishop of Llandaff and Bishop of Rochester.
Bottlesham was made first titular Bishop of Bethlehem in 1385[1] and was translated from Bethlehem to Llandaff in 1386.[2] He was then translated from Llandaff to Rochester on 27 August 1389.[3]
Bottlesham died about 26 February 1400.[3]

This article about an English bishop or archbishop is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Adnan Menderes Boulevard (Turkish: Adnan Menderes Bulvarı) is a major avenue in Mersin, Turkey. It is named after Adnan Menderes (1899-1961), the prime minister of Turkey between 1950 and 1960.
The eastern end of the boulevard is a junction at 36°47′02″N 34°36′44″E﻿ / ﻿36.78389°N 34.61222°E﻿ / 36.78389; 34.61222 on İsmet İnönü Boulevard. While İsmet İnönü Boulevard continues to northwest Adnan Menderes Boulevard runs to west and south east. [1] It is parallel to Mediterranean Sea coast, the distance between the coast and the boulevard is about 50 m (160 ft). The area is used for recreation by residents of Mersin. Many coffeehouses as well as parks designed by various football clubs are situated at this recreational area. The Mersin Marina is also situated within this area. The biggest mosque in Mersin, the Muğdat Mosque, Mersin Naval Museum, a number of public schools and a part of Mersin University are on the north side of the boulevard. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Boulevard runs in parallel to Adnan Menderes Boulevard at a distance of about 200 metres (660 ft). The total length of the boulevard is about 7 km (4.3 mi).
The constant altitude boulevard, without any pronounced curves provides an ideal racecourse for races. At the 2013 Mediterranean Games, both the cycling and the half marathon events were held on Adnan Menderes Boulevard.[2]
Leandro Marcos Peruchena Pereira (born 13 July 1991), known as Leandro Pereira or sometimes as just Leandro, is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a forward for Botafogo-SP.
Born in Araçatuba, State of São Paulo, Leandro began his career on Ferroviária, making his senior debuts in 2011. In the following year he signed with Mogi Mirim, where he earned the nickname of Leandro Banana[1] and went on to appear twice in that year's Campeonato Paulista. In December 2012 he signed with Capivariano,[2] but left the club in May of the following year, joining Icasa.[3]
In January 2014 Leandro signed a short-term contract with Portuguesa.[4]
On 1 April, after appearing regularly with Lusa, Leandro moved to Chapecoense, freshly promoted to the Série A.[5] He made his top level debut on 27 April 2014, starting in a 1–2 away loss against Sport Recife.[6]
Leandro scored his first league goal on 25 September 2014, netting the last of a 3–0 home win against Atlético Paranaense.[7] He finished the campaign with 10 goals, scoring all of them in the last four months of the League. 
On 19 December 2014, after being linked with a move to Corinthians, Leandro signed a five-year deal with their fierce rivals Palmeiras.[8] He started the 2015 season with Palmeiras playing regularly in the attack, he scored in his first match for the club in a friendly against Shandong Luneng. Leandro scored only 3 goals in 14 appearances in the Campeonato Paulista, but nonetheless helped the team reach the finals where Palmeiras lost to rivals Santos on penalties.
In the beginning of the Série A, Leandro started most of the matches and had great appearances for the team, playing 11 matches and scoring 6 goals. On July, he called the attention of Belgian side Club Brugge, after only 7 months with Palmeiras.
In August 2015, Leandro Pereira signed with Club Brugge on a three-year deal for R$14.2 million, with an option to extend a year.[9] Together with the team, he won the 2015–16 Belgian Pro League, playing 12 matches mainly as a substitute and without scoring a goal.
On 29 June 2016, Leandro returned to Palmeiras after manifestation of manager Cuca to count on another forward in the squad. Leandro signed a loan deal from Club Brugge until 30 June 2017.[10]
In 24 January 2023, Leandro linked with Persian Gulf Pro League side Persepolis.[11][12] On 4 February 2023, Leandro joined the team on a one-and-a-half-year deal.[13]
He is a forward, but he has the ability to play as a left or right winger too. Accurate shots in difficult situations towards the goal have been known as one of his abilities.[14][15]
Mogi Mirim
Palmeiras
Club Brugge
Persepolis
Daniel Steven Kimbugwe Kajumba (born 20 November 1952, Uganda) is an Anglican priest. Since 2001, he has been the Archdeacon of Reigate.[1]
Kajumba was educated at school in Uganda and also has a degree from the Open University;[2] and was ordained after earlier jobs in the caring professions in 1986.[3] After a curacy in Goldington he worked in his home country until 1998. He was then team vicar of Horley until his archdeacon's appointment. He was appointed as a member of the board of governors of Monkton Combe School in 2004.
Kajumba's retirement was announced as 23 February 2016.[4]

This article about a Church of England archdeacon in the Province of Canterbury is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Ugandan biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
La Huacana is the municipal seat of La Huacana Municipality in Michoacán, Mexico. In 2010 it also was the most populous locality in the municipality. It is located 161 kilometers from the state capital Morelia.
The name comes from the purepecha which means "place of dresses".
During the wars before the Spaniards arrived, this place was conquered by the Tarascan state, by the successors of Tariacuri: Hiquingare, Tangaxuan and Hirepan. These rulers, in order to ensure the payment of tribute, appointed Cupauxanti as chieftain. In the 16th century, with the arrival of the Spaniards, shortly after the conquest of Apatzingan, La Huacana became an encomienda under Juan Pantoja. In 1789 Jose Maria Morelos was the curate of the parish of Tamacuaro de la Aguacana.[2]
In 2010, the town of La Huacana had a population of 9,395.[3]
La Huacana is the centre of the municipality's principal economic activities, which are agriculture, cattle raising and fishing.
Some of the attractions of La Huacana are the main square, the temple of San Nicolas de Tolentino, the volcano "el jorullo", the natural spa "la presita", the spas "hot water" and "the waterfall".
Aminpur is a village in Jatsakhni Union of Bera Upazila in Pabna District of Bangladesh. It is now in under Aminpur Thana. It is located on the banks of the Attrai River, along national highway N5 between Kazirhat Launch Terminal and Kashinathpur. According to the 2011 Bangladesh census, it had 962 households and a population of 4,130.[1] The postal code is 6682.[2]
In 1986 was registered wedding for youngest couple ever, 11 months old boy and 3 months girl, as a solution for their cultivable field control after a long time debate between two families.
In May 2013, the National Implementation Committee for Administrative Reforms (NICAR) decided to upgrade Aminpur Investigation Centre into a full police station covering eight unions of the upazila.[3] The police station opened in October 2013.[4] Aminpur has one secondary school, Aminpur Ayen Uddin High School, founded in 1967, which serves 1,000 students.[5]
23°54′56″N 89°37′17″E﻿ / ﻿23.9155°N 89.6215°E﻿ / 23.9155; 89.6215

This Rajshahi Division  location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Algeria Press Service (APS; French: Algérie Presse Service; Arabic: وكالة الأنباء الجزائرية, romanized: Wakālat al-’Anbā’ al-Jazā’iriyyah; Berber languages: ⵜⴰⵡⴰⴽⵍⴰ ⵉⵙⴰⵍⴻⵏ ⵏ ⵍⴻⵣⴰⵢⴻⵔ) is a news agency based in Algeria. Its first hand-typed news with the national flag's colours was then taken up by all the foreign media of the time.
Algeria Press Service was created on December 1, 1961[1] in Tunis, in the wake of the Algerian War of Independence to be the flagship of the Algerian Revolution and the nation's standard-bearer on the global media scene.  As a strong supporter of the November 1954 Revolution, APS settled soon after the cease-fire at the historic Casbah of Algiers, the centre of the resistance during the war.  The agency was preparing for the post-war period, i.e. reconstruction of the country, and consolidation of national sovereignty.
Following independence, APS headquarters temporarily settled in a maisonette at Krim Belkacem Boulevard in Algiers, improving its editorial office. They began establishing their network throughout the country and acquiring their first technical equipment. With it, the agency began operating as a public service broadcasting network. In the meantime, it started training journalists, technicians and operators.
On April 1, 1963, the agency, which moved to a building at Che Guevara Boulevard where it stayed for over thirty years, began telegraphic news broadcasting. It got connected with other world news agencies. It also extended its network of regional bureaus and invested in its representations abroad. Its expanding photography service at the time enabled APS to distribute images of Algeria's broad reconstruction process, using the Belino System.
On November 19, 1985, APS became an Établissement public à caractère économique et à vocation socio-culturelle.[a] Transformed on April 20, 1991 into an Établissement public à caractère industriel et commercial (EPIC).[b]
In January 1993, the agency moved to its new headquarters in Kouba. It became involved in new technologies on January 1, 1994, when it launched its first computerised editorial office. On April 25, 1995, it started delivering its news automatically.
On February 18, 1998, APS inaugurated its official website, having been hosted the previous year by the Research Center in Scientific and Technical Information (CERIST). On July 5, 1998, both of the agency's pages in Arabic and the agency's online product, APS Online, were launched. This marked the starting-point of a new stage that would position the agency among the world leaders of news and communication. In November of the same year, it launched its broadcast via satellite, which would help the agency diversify its service range.
Starting January 1, 2009, APS covers all the Algerian territory.[2]
At the regional level, the news is collected by a network of correspondents gathered around 4 regional directorates and covering all the country:
Joseph ben Abraham Gikatilla (1248 – after 1305) (Hebrew: יוסף בן אברהם ג'יקטיליה, Spanish: Chiquitilla, "the very little one") was a Spanish kabbalist, student of Abraham Abulafia.
Born at Medinaceli, Old Castile (one of the former qualifying regions into which Spain was subdivided), Gikatilla was for some time a pupil of the kabbalist Abraham Abulafia, by whom he is highly praised; his kabbalistic knowledge became so profound that he was supposed to be able to work miracles, and on this account was called "Joseph Ba'al ha-Nissim".. (the Thaumaturge or literally Master of Miracles; Zacuto, Yuḥasin, p. 224a). Like his master, Gikatilla occupied himself with mystic combinations and transpositions of letters and numbers; indeed, Abulafia considered him as the continuator of his school (Adolf Jellinek, B.H. iii, p. xl). But Gikatilla was not an adversary of philosophy; on the contrary, he tried to reconcile philosophy with kabbalah, declaring that the latter is the foundation of the former. He, however, strove after the higher science, that is, mysticism. His works in general represent a progressive development of philosophical insight into mysticism. His first work shows that he had considerable knowledge of secular sciences, and that he was familiar with the works of Ibn Gabirol, Ibn Ezra, Maimonides, and others. He died at Peñafiel after 1305.
In different manuscripts of the work the author's name is variously written "Gribzul," "Karnitol," and "Necatil," all corruptions of "Gikatilla."
Gikatilla was a prolific writer; he wrote his first work (Ginnat Egoz, גנת אגוז‎) when only twenty-six. It is a kabbalistic treatise in three parts (Hanau, 1615).
Gikatilla at times criticizes the Sefer Yeṣirah and the Pirḳe Hekalot. The seven heavens (Ḥag. 12a) are identified by him with the classical planets. He holds Maimonides in great esteem even when he opposes him, and quotes him very often. Other authorities quoted by him are Ibn Gabirol, Samuel ibn Naghrela, and Abraham ibn Ezra. Isaac ben Samuel of Acre in his Me'irat 'Enayyim severely criticizes Gikatilla for too free usage of the Tetragrammaton.
Sha'are Orah, or Sefer ha-Orah, (שערי אורה‎) is Gikatilla's most influential work. The Arizal called it "a key to understanding the mystical studies".[3] The Vilna Gaon and Zundel Salant recommended that their students study it. Among those who quote it are: Moshe Cordevero, Joseph Caro, Chaim Vital, the Shelah ha-Kadosh, the Sefat Emet,[4] Shem Tov ibn Shem Tov, Moses al-Ashkar, and Judah Hayyat, and long extracts from it are inserted by Reuben ben Hoshke in his Yalḳuṭ Reubeni. It was translated into Latin by Paul Ricius and used by Reuchlin as a defense against his adversaries.[5]
Sha'are Orah (Mantua, 1561) deals with the names of God. 
Gikatilla takes an attitude somewhat hostile to philosophy. He quotes only the Sefer Yeẓirah and the Pirḳe Hekalot,.
"Walking in the Zoo" is a popular English music hall song published in 1869.  It was composed by Alfred Lee with lyrics by Hugh Willoughby Sweny, and was first and most successfully performed by Alfred Vance, billed as "The Great Vance".
The song is notable for first popularising, in Britain, both the Americanism "O.K.", and the word "zoo" as a short form of "zoological gardens" – specifically, the London Zoological Gardens.  It also introduced to British audiences the American slang word "skedaddle".[1]  The song's chorus goes: "Walking in the Zoo, walking in the Zoo / The O.K. thing on Sunday is walking in the Zoo"; and a verse contains the lines "My cousin bolted off without any more ado / And I skidaddled also looking very blue."[2]
This song-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Look Away is a 2021 British documentary film about the sexual abuse of young girls in the rock music industry. The film is directed by Sophie Cunningham and Ben Steele, and produced by Sky Documentaries.
The film's title is derived a track of the same name on Iggy Pop's 1996 album Naughty Little Doggie, which is a "tribute" to one of the most famous "baby groupies" on Sunset Strip in the 1970s, Sable Starr.[1] The track of the same name mentions in its lyrics that Pop slept with Starr when she was 13,[2] with none of the reviews of the album addressing the lyrics.[3]
Look Away is built around extensive interviews with Kari Krome, the Runaways' bass guitarist Jackie Fuchs, and Julia Holcomb. The documentary describes several rapes and other sexual abuse, including a detailed account of the alleged rape of Jackie Fuchs by her band's then-manager Kim Fowley. It also tells the story of the relationship between Julia Holcomb and Aerosmith's Steven Tyler as well as the alleged sexual assault of former Penthouse Pet, model, and actress Sheila Kennedy at the hands of Guns N' Roses frontman Axl Rose, and offers interviews of other people with experiences of sexual abuse in the United States rock scene in the 70s and 80s.[1]
According to Cunningham, the purpose of the film "is not necessarily about seeking justice in the legal sense, but having a voice – and trying to instigate change. Although we are focusing on a certain era in this film, the music industry is still functioning in a very, very similar way."[4]
Uncut rated the film 3.5 stars out of 5, while The Telegraph, The Guardian and the Financial Times rated it 4 stars out of 5.[5]
The film was nominated for Broadcast Digital Award for Best Documentary Programme,[6] and the director Sophie Cunningham was nominated in the Best Emerging Talent category in BAFTA Craft Awards 2022 for the film.[7][5]
After the film was nominated by BAFTA, it was discussed on Instagram by Courtney Love, where she supported some of the claims made, commenting that Steven Tyler also adopted another 13-year-old girl in a similar fashion.[8]
On November 22, 2023, Kennedy sued Axl Rose for sexually assaulting her in 1989. [9]
Pongsit "Pu" Kampee [1][2] (Thai: พงษ์สิทธิ์ คำภีร์) is a Thai rock singer and producer popular in the Phleng pheua chiwit (Songs for Life) genre.[3] Inspired by (Lek) Preecha Chanapai of Carabao and (Nga) Surachai Jantimathawn of Caravan.
Pu Pongsit Kampee was born in Mueng district in Nongkhai province on May 2, 1967. He is the youngest son in his family and Mr. Somsak is his older brother and Mrs. Saowalak is his older sister. His father, Mr. Sutchai, is a carpenter and his mother Ms. Somphon, is a practical nurse. Both of them work at a hospital near their home. He attended kindergarten and primary education at the Wat Arun Rang Si School and was later educated at a lower secondary school at the Thep Witthayakhan School. Pongsit decided to study at the Thai-Germany Technical Institute in Khon Kaen province but he must have been disappointed because he did not pass the test. So he decided to study in North Eastern Technological college in Knon Kean province. One year later he applied to Thai-Germany Technical Institute again and this time he succeeded. While he studied he also joined the soccer team and practice his guitar skill. He also wrote a song by his own. At that time he had opportunities to join with a senior band name "retired" and that was first step to be musician in his life.
After being educated at the Technical Institute, Pongsit decided to go to Bangkok with the dream of being a musician. Pongsit got the inspiration to be a musician since his studies in primary school and from his favorite musicians Nga Caravan (Surachai Chanthimathon) and Lek Carabao (Pricha Chanaphai). So, Caravan the band was the first target and first step for him to be real musician. However, he joined the band as a backup bass player got the chance to play in an open show for the band. Finally, released his first solo album in 1987 titled "Thueng Phuean," on contract with Buffalo Head Company, and this album included a famous song named "Thueng Phuean"
Pongsit became famous in 1990 with the album "Sua Tua Thee 11". At that time the kind of music Pongsit played (Phleng Pheua Chiwit) was still popular, and he had good vocals with a very high pitch and clear identity. Therefore, when this album was released, feedback from fans was really good. So this gave Pongsit more inspiration, and he continued to create other albums. 1992 was a peak year for him with album "Ma Tam Sanya" and the very famous songs "Sutchai," "Thai Thoe Khuen Ma" and "Ma Tam Sanya." Finally, he was given the names in "Phleng Pheua Chiwit 3rd Legend" and "Chaopho Phleng Rak Phuea Chiwit"
Kampee well-known since in 1990 from the song "Ta Lod Wela" from album Sua Tua Thee 11 were a released by Rod Fai Don Tri.Also he produced music in a drama series named "Ta Wan Shing prob" and this song contained was featured in album Bun Terk Karn Dern Tang but it had been removed later. Because of copyright (music licensing ) problem. So Pongsit take song replace it with the song "Rong rien khong noo". The songs that were popular after he released the album were " Kid tung", "Rong rien Khong noo", "tur phn siasala", "sais sok  "and "mae".
Pongsit's nickname is "Pu". Some people call him "Kampee" by surname that he call himself. In 1992 Kampee released album "Ma tam sanya" (came as promised) and it had popular song "Sutchi"(deep in mind), "Thai thoe khuen Ma"(Take her back) and "Ma tam sanya" (came as promised ). In this album he had opportunities to work with his favorite artist "Lek carabao". In that year Pongsit had been the most popular then people called him "Phleng Pheua Chiwit Legend" or "The godfather of Pheua Chiwit love song".
Pongsit Kampee has a melodic tone, Echo tremolo in his own style. His song that still popular is adagio that had story about love and lonely etc. The fast rhythm that popular is "Num Noi"( young boy), "Yot Chai"(Great man), "Thong Di Thong Khe "(Gold and Find gold), "Nek Sawaengha"(seeker), "Mo hai Arai"(What the university give to you?), "Ik Khon Nueng"(Another one), "Banthuek Khon Doen Thanon"(Diary of the street man), "Raeng Yong Mi"( Still have the force ).
Currently, the music in Thailand has been changed in style. Therefore, the popularity of Pongsit has fallen. But he still recording new songs. In 2012 Pongsit released a new album named "25 year (still have hope)", for celebrated 25 year of his music road. He performed live at popular music festival, Wonderfruit in Pattaya in December 2015.
Cyrtopodion belaense is a species of gecko, a lizard in the family Gekkonidae. The species is endemic to southern Pakistan.[1]

This article about a gecko is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Tomás Oscar Badaloni (born 2 May 2000) is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a centre-forward for Godoy Cruz.[2]
After playing futsal with Alianza Guaymallén, Badaloni signed for local team Club Leonardo Murialdo in 2012 before moving to Godoy Cruz in 2016.[1][4][5] His first experience of first-team football came in May 2018, with Diego Dabove selecting him as substitute for Primera División fixtures with River Plate and Argentinos Juniors; though he didn't come on.[2][6][7] Badaloni was again on the bench in July 2019 versus Huracán in the Copa Argentina, prior to appearing for his professional debut against San Lorenzo on 27 July under Lucas Bernardi; playing for the full duration of a 3–2 defeat, with the centre-forward scoring his first goal in the process.[2][8][9]
Sameodesma undilinealis is a moth in the family Crambidae.[1] It is found in Zimbabwe.[2]

This Spilomelinae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Freedom of religion is recognized as a legal right in Hungary. The Fundamental Law of Hungary establishes the country as being founded on Christian values but guarantees the right to freedom of religion and freedom from religious discrimination. The history of religious freedom in Hungary has varied, with freedom of religion first recognized in 1919 before being restricted by Communist rule in the mid-20th century. Religious rights were restored following the end of Communism in Hungary, but the government under Viktor Orbán has been criticized for its restriction of religious freedoms.
In 2023, the country was scored 3 out of 4 for religious freedom.[1]
Hungary was established as a Christian nation when Stephen I was crowned king by the pope in the year 1000. During the Reformation in the 16th century, Hungary was split primarily between Catholics and Calvinists. Several other Christian denominations and a significant Jewish population developed over the following centuries. As a result, Hungary developed a culture of religious pluralism, and in 1895, a law was passed guaranteeing the right to freedom of religion in Hungary. Under this law, public worship was regulated and established churches were recognized by the government.[2]
The Hungarian Communist Party briefly took control of the country in 1919 and established the Hungarian Soviet Republic with a policy of state atheism. This government fell before its religious policies could be implemented, and backlash to Communist rule resulted in a period of Christian nationalism in Hungary. The Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party took power in 1949, and with the backing of the Soviet Union, religious practice was restricted in Hungary.[3] Following the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, restrictions on religion were loosened despite a continuing decline in the religious population.[4]
Communist rule ended in 1989, and freedom of religion was recognized as a constitutional right under the new government.[5] The Constitution of Hungary was replaced with the new Fundamental Law of 2011, which codified a right to freedom of religion, and Act C of 2011 was passed to govern religion in Hungary.[6][7] Under Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, the government has emphasized the role of Christianity in Hungary, and the Hungarian government has been criticized for restricting religious rights and giving preferential treatment to some religious organizations.[8][9][10]
The Fundamental Law of Hungary took effect in 2012 as the constitution of Hungary. This law establishes the importance of Christianity in Hungarian government while also recognizing the right to freedom of religion. The constitution establishes a separation of church and state and authorizes the regulation of churches through a cardinal act. Citizens have the right to proclaim and teach their religious beliefs through religious acts and ceremonies or to refrain from proclaiming a religion. The constitution also guarantees the right to be free from discrimination on the basis of religion. The preamble of the Constitution states that Hungary was founded as part of Christian Europe and that Christianity has a role in preserving nationhood.[6]
The Hungarian Civil Liberties Union has challenged Hungary's unequal treatment of religious organizations, but the Constitutional Court has ruled that freedom of religion does not entail a right to equal support from the government. The Constitution also prohibits hate speech on the basis of religion. In 2020, the Constitution was amended to state that children are to be educated in the values of Christian culture.[11]
Since it came into effect in 2012, religious law in Hungary has been directed by Act C of 2011 on the Right to Freedom of Conscience and Religion, and on the Legal Status of Churches, Religious Denominations and Religious Communities. This law reiterates the right to freedom of religion in various aspects of Hungarian society and the right to be free from religious discrimination. It also describes the legal system under which religious organizations operate and how they are recognized under the law.[7] Students in the first eight years of public school are required to receive education in ethics. Parents and students are given the option of choosing between religious ethics or secular ethics. Any religious organization may operate a religious school and receive government subsidies based on the number of students enrolled. Religious rights are also extended to people in prison and military servicemembers.[7][11]
Act C of 2011 has been criticized for enabling discriminatory treatment against religious organizations. Upon taking effect, the law revoked legal status from hundreds of religious organizations. In 2014, the European Court of Human Rights found that this law violated the rights to freedom of religion and freedom of association. Under an amendment to the law in 2018, Hungary recognizes four categories of religious organizations with various privileges.[12] The government negotiates individually with each religious organization to determine subsidies in return for public service and other religious activities. The government is also authorized to dissolve a religious organization if its activities are found to be illegal, though the government does not have the power to control or monitor religious organizations.[7][11]
Since Viktor Orbán's government under the Fidesz party was formed in 2010, it has been accused of religious discrimination and preferential treatment of certain religious groups.[8][9][10] Fidesz has been accused of using state media to spread xenophobic messaging, including messaging that targets Jewish and Muslim populations.[13][14] The Hungarian government has been criticized for passing legislation based on religious ideas and outsourcing government duties and public services to churches.[15]
The government of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has been criticized as antisemitic, though Orbán disputes these claims.[16][17][18] Orbán has also been criticized for Islamophobia.[19] The government under Orbán has portrayed Muslim refugees as a threat to Hungary.[13][20] The Organization of Muslims in Hungary has criticized the government for allotting it insufficient cemetery space, for delaying the restoration of the Yakovalı Hasan Paşa Mosque, and for providing Muslims in prison with pork despite the legal right to an alternative meal.[11]
Antisemitism in Hungary has been found to be prevalent.[21][22] A 2019 poll found that 36% of Hungarians believe there to be a "secret Jewish network" controlling politics and the economy and that 15% wish for Jews to leave the country.[21] A 2019 poll of Hungarian Jews found that 77% considered antisemitism a major problem in Hungary and that 35% had experienced harassment in the five years preceding the poll.[22] The Magyar Gárda was far-right organization that targeted minorities between 2007 and 2009, targeting Jews specifically.[23] During his visit to Hungary in 2021, Pope Francis identified antisemitism as a major problem in the country.[16]
Due to Hungary's limited Muslim population, Islamophobia was not a major issue in Hungary before 2015. Following the influx of refugees into Europe from Islamic countries in 2015, Islamophobic messaging increased significantly.[13] Muslims have been found to experience verbal harassment in public, with women and girls wearing a hijab being targeted in particular.[11][20]
Joseph Koshimi Yamagiwa (September 9, 1906 in Seattle, Washington – December 10, 1968) was Professor of Japanese at the University of Michigan and the chairman of its Department of Languages and Literature. He died of a seizure.[1]
Yamagiwa attended the University of Washington, then later transferred to Bates College, located in Maine. After his college education, he proceeded to enroll in the University of Michigan's English graduate studies. He graduated with a master's degree in 1930. Yamagiwa was an editor of the early Modern Dictionary. He completed his studies in 1942, with a treatise entitled The Older Inflected Forms of Surviving in the Modern Japanese Written Language.[1]
From 1942–1946 Yamagiwa held the position of Director of Army Military Intelligence Japanese school located at Ann Arbor and the position Supervisor of the Language Program for the Army Specialized Training Program and the Civil Affairs Training School from 1943 until 1945. Later in 1945, he took his first post at the University of Michigan as the Supervisor of the Japanese Translation Program and was also a Research Bombing Analyst for the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey, which took place in Washington D.C. and Tokyo.[1] He was later appointed as a colonel in the United States Army Reserves.[1]
Yamagiwa was appointed as the Associate Director of Japanese in 1947, and finally to the position of Director of Japanese in 1953. He accepted the role of Chairman of the Department of Far Eastern Languages and Literature and was employed in that position until 1964. He was appointed the Fulbright Lecturer in the areas of Japanese literature, language and thought at Oxford University. Yamagiwa was an active member of the Modern Language Association, the American Oriental Society, the Association for Asian Studies, the Linguistic Society of America, and the Association of Teachers of Japanese.[1]
Black Dream (Chinese: 黑梦; pinyin: Hēi Mèng) is the debut Solo Album by Chinese artist Dou Wei, released in October 1994 on Magic Stone Records. It is considered to be a landmark album among the Chinese rock scene.[1][2]
Drawing heavily from goth rock acts such as Bauhaus and The Cure, as well as dub and reggae, Black Dream stood in direct contrast to the traditional guitar-oriented styles which had defined Chinese rock up to that point. The album's haunting production, coupled with Dou's stream-of-conscious vocal delivery, established it as China's first alternative album.[3]
The album has been ranked among Taiwan's best 1990s pop albums.[4]
After leaving seminal Chinese hard rock band Black Panther in October 1991. Dou immediately established the band Dreaming (Chinese: 做梦乐队; pinyin: Zuòmèng yuèduì). Many of the tracks on Black Dream were written during this period. Dreaming released one song, "希望之光" (pinyin: Xīwàng Zhī Guāng; "Light of Hope") before disbanding in October 1992.[5]
All lyrics are written by Dou Wei; all music is composed by Dou Wei and Dreaming, unless notedPersonnel as listed in the album's liner notes are:[5]
Mary Helena Cornwall Legh, (20 May 1857 – 18 December 1941) also known as ("Nellie" Cornwall Legh) was a British Anglican missionary, who late in life devoted herself to the welfare, education and medical care of leprosy patients in Kusatsu, Gunma Prefecture, Japan.
Cornwall Legh was born in 1857 at Canterbury, England, into a prominent Cheshire family. Her father, Brigadier Edmund Cornwall Legh O.B. was a decorated veteran of British military campaigns in Crimea and India.  He died of reported heat stroke in India at the age of 37 when Mary was only two years old.
Cornwall Legh's early years were spent with her widowed mother and younger brother Neville at her uncle, George Cornwall Legh M.P.'s estate at High Legh in Cheshire.  She regularly visited London and in later life credited the influence of Rev. George Wilkinson then Vicar at St. Peter's Church, Eaton Square with her lifelong interest in overseas Christian mission work.[1] She traveled widely in Europe with her mother Julia, became a published children's author, studied music and drawing in France, education, economics, languages and English literature graduating in 1886 with an LLA degree from St. Andrew's University in Scotland.[2]  After traveling around the world with her mother Julia in 1892 and 1893, briefly visiting Japan en route, Cornwall Legh and her mother settled in the village of Hamble-le-Rice near Southampton.
Following the death of her mother in 1907, Cornwall Legh made the decision to become a self-financed SPG missionary. Having almost no surviving family relatives in England, she travelled to Japan in 1907 at the age of 50. The first eight years of Cornwall Legh's missionary work in Japan was spent in the service of the Nippon Sei Ko Kai Diocese of South Tokyo, notably at St. Andrew's Cathedral (Yokohama) and St. Barnabas' Church, Ushigome.[3] Despite inheriting a large fortune, she was noted for the simplicity of her dress, empathy and communication with Japanese of varied social status and appreciation of modest local food.
In 1915, Cornwall Legh visited Kusatsu at the request of a Christian belonging to the Koenkai (Light and salt society), which had been established under the influence of Hannah Riddell noted for her work at the Kaishun Hospital for leprosy patients in Kumamoto. Cornwall Legh investigated the Kusatsu Hot Spring, one of the gathering spots of leprosy patients. It was a problematic town where hundreds of leprosy patients gathered, mainly in the Yunosawa district, to find a cure or temporary relief from the symptoms of the disease.  The leprosy sufferers were seen as an unwelcome presence by many in the town and often led impoverished lives without access to regular employment or medical care. Dr. Francois-Xavier Bertrand head of the Koyama Fukusei Hospital in Gotemba had first attempted to set up a hospital facility in the town in 1900, but met with immediate opposition.
Cornwall Legh started missionary work at Kusatsu in 1916. In the same year she established a kindergarten and a women's dormitory "Family of Love", in a building previously used as a ryokan.  In 1917, she established a clinic (Dr. Kesa Hattori, Nurse Chiyo Mikami), followed by various homes and schools. The administration of the mission and all buildings were financially paid by her, although in later years, fundraising was also conducted in Japan, Britain and the United States.
In 1929, Tomekichi Matsumoto, a company president donated enough money for the building of a new clinic and the salary of a doctor for 10 years.
Chiyo Mikami, previously a nurse of Zensho Hospital and appointed as the nurse of the "Family of Love" dormitory of the St. Barnabas' Mission, advised to open a clinic. Dr. Kesako Hattori came and St. Barbanas' Hospital was opened.
The directors of the hospital were:
In the 1930s the Japanese Government began to establish residential care facilities for leprosy sufferers, opening the Kuryu Rakusen-en Sanatorium in Kusatsu in 1932.  While welcoming the role of government in the provision of health services, Cornwall Legh also expressed concern as many leprosy patients previously hospitalized in the St. Barnabas' Hospital were against the closure of the facilities.
Cornwall Legh celebrated her 77th birthday in 1939 returning briefly to England on the account of health problems. Her leadership role at the St. Barnabas' Mission was taken over by Mary B. Magill. After returning to Japan, Cornwall Legh lived at the warmer location of Akashi, Hyogo Prefecture. The St. Barnabas' Hospital was officially closed on 13 April 1941. Cornwall Legh died on 18 December 1941 at Akashi.
St. Barnabas' Church, the adjoining memorial museum and Cornwall Legh Park in Kusatsu attest to the charitable legacy of Mary Cornwall Legh and the history of the community she sought to serve.
In 2007, on the 150th anniversary of her birth, a bust of Cornwall Legh was unveiled in Kusatsu in the presence of the British Ambassador to Japan, Sir Graham Holbrooke-Fry.[4]
Eiko Arai wrote that the combination of the missionary work and welfare in Kusatsu was magnificent. Legh respected the human rights of people with leprosy, and all she did was in the interests of these people.[5]
The V-tail or vee-tail (sometimes called a butterfly tail[1] or Rudlicki's V-tail[2][citation needed]) of an aircraft is an unconventional arrangement of the tail control surfaces that replaces the traditional vertical and horizontal surfaces with two surfaces set in a V-shaped configuration. It is not widely used in aircraft design. The aft edge of each twin surface is a hinged control surface called a  ruddervator, which combines the functions of both a rudder and elevator.
The V-tail was invented in 1930 by Polish engineer Jerzy Rudlicki[2] and was tested for the first time on an Hanriot HD.28 trainer, modified by Polish aerospace manufacturer Plage and Laśkiewicz in the summer of 1931.[citation needed]
The X-shaped tail surfaces of the experimental Lockheed XFV were essentially a V tail that extended both above and below the fuselage.
The most popular conventionally V-tailed aircraft that has been mass-produced is the Beechcraft Bonanza Model 35, often known as the V-tail Bonanza or simply V-Tail. Other examples include the Lockheed F-117 Nighthawk stealth attack aircraft and the Fouga CM.170 Magister trainer. The Cirrus Vision SF50 jet is a recent example of a civilian aircraft adopting the V-tail. Some gliders, like the Lehtovaara PIK-16 Vasama, were designed with a V-tail, but the production Vasamas had a cruciform tail.[3]
The Blohm & Voss P 213 Miniaturjäger was one of the first aircraft to have an inverted V-tail. Unmanned aerial vehicles such as the LSI Amber, General Atomics Gnat and General Atomics MQ-1 Predator would later feature this type of tail. The Ultraflight Lazair ultralights, of which over 2,000 were produced, featured an inverted V-tail, which also carried the rear landing gear.[4]
Ideally, with fewer surfaces than a conventional three-aerofoil tail or a T-tail, the V-tail is lighter and has less wetted surface area, so thus produces less induced and parasitic drag. However, NACA studies indicated that the V-tail surfaces must be larger than simple projection into the vertical and horizontal planes would suggest, such that total wetted area is roughly constant; reduction of intersection surfaces from three to two does, however, produce a net reduction in drag through elimination of some interference drag.[5]
Light jet aircraft such as the Cirrus Vision SF50, the Eclipse 400, the Sonex SubSonex or the Northrop Grumman RQ-4 Global Hawk unmanned aerial drone often have the power plant placed outside the aircraft. In such cases V-tails are used to avoid placing the vertical stabilizer in the exhaust of the engine, which would disrupt the flow of the exhaust, reducing thrust and increasing wear on the stabilizer, possibly leading to damage over time.[6]
In military aircraft, V-tails reduce the number of right angles on an aircraft, improving its stealth characteristics.[7]
In the mid-1980s, the Federal Aviation Administration re-assessed the Beechcraft Bonanza due to safety concerns. While the Bonanza met the initial certification requirements, it had a history of fatal mid-air breakups during extreme stress, at a rate exceeding the accepted norm. The type was deemed airworthy and restrictions removed after Beechcraft issued a structural modification as an Airworthiness Directive.[8]
V-tailed aircraft require longer rear fuselages than aircraft with conventional empennages to prevent yawing.[citation needed] This tendency, called "snaking", was apparent on taking off and landing on the Fouga CM.170 Magister, which has a relatively short fuselage.[citation needed]
Ruddervators are the control surfaces on an airplane with a V-tail configuration. They are located at the trailing edge of each of the two airfoils making up the tail of the plane. The first use of ruddervators may have been on the Coandă-1910's X-tail, although there is no proof that the aircraft ever flew.[9] The later Coandă-1911 flew with ruddervators on its X-tail.[10] Later Polish engineer Jerzy Rudlicki designed the first practical ruddervators in 1930, tested on a modified Hanriot HD.28 trainer in 1931.
The name is a portmanteau of "rudder" and "elevator." In a conventional aircraft tail configuration, the rudder provides yaw (horizontal) control and the elevator provides pitch (vertical) control.
Ruddervators provide the same control effect as conventional control surfaces, but through a more complex control system that actuates the control surfaces in unison. Yaw moving the nose to the left is produced on an upright V tail by moving the pedals left which deflects the left-hand ruddervator down and left and the right-hand ruddervator up and left. The opposite produces yaw to the right. Pitch nose up is produced by moving the control column or stick back which deflects the left-hand ruddervator up and right and the right-hand ruddervator up and left. Pitch nose down is produced by moving the control column or stick forward which induces the opposite ruddervator movements.[11]
Luciano Conati (17 March 1950 – 6 February 2016) was an Italian professional racing cyclist. He rode in the 1976 Tour de France.[1][2]
This biographical article related to an Italian cycling person born in the 1950s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Goatlord is a demo album by Norwegian band Darkthrone, released in 1996.[1] The album was re-released by Peaceville Records in 2011, with a bonus track and new artwork approved by the band and a second disc containing commentary from Fenriz and Nocturno Culto.
Goatlord was written in 1990 as the follow-up to Darkthrone's death metal debut album, Soulside Journey,[1] and was recorded in late 1990 and early 1991 as an instrumental rehearsal tape.[2] The album was scrapped when the band changed style from death metal to black metal in favor of A Blaze in the Northern Sky.[1] Most of the lyrics for Goatlord were written in the autumn of 1990, with some additions in 1994 for the last two songs.[3] The vocals were recorded in 1994 by Fenriz.[1] The female-sounding vocals were also recorded by him, partly using pitch shifting.[1] Satyr of the band Satyricon is credited for the opening screams in "Rex" and "Sadomasochistic Rites".
After Peaceville Records acquired the Moonfog catalog of the band in 2010 Nocturno Culto called for a cover artwork competition for the 2011 reissue of the album: "There are two albums that will have entirely new cover artwork: 'Ravishing Grimness' and 'Goatlord'. This is a decision that is made by Fenriz and myself. And the idea now is that we are making a competition out of this. If you now feel the urge to contribute to this competition, you are most welcome to send in your art to Peaceville. Only serious contributions will reach Fenriz and me to decide upon. Thank you in advance, we're looking forward to this."[4]
The original 1991 instrumental rehearsal recording was remastered as Goatlord: Original, and scheduled for release with new cover art by Peaceville Records in February 2023. This reissue of the album featured alternate song titles from previous releases, as well as an instrumental version of the track "A Blaze in the Northern Sky".[5]
Siebmachers Wappenbuch (German: [ˈziːpmaxɐs ˈvapm̩buːx]) is a roll of arms first published in 1605 as two heraldic multivolume book series of armorial bearings or coats of arms of the nobility of the Holy Roman Empire, as well as coats of arms of city-states and some burgher families. Founded and compiled by Johann Ambrosius Siebmacher (1561 – 23 March 1611), a German heraldic artist, copperplate engraver, etcher and publisher from Nuremberg, these works became an important source of heraldry of the German-speaking regions.
The Alter Siebmacher was compiled 1605–1608, and represents the contemporary heraldry during the final two centuries of the Holy Roman Empire. 
Its two volumes were completed by Johann Siebmacher. His work was continued to six volumes with additional supplements by Paul Fürst, Wolfgang Gottlieb Fürst, Rudolf Johann Helmers, Christoph Weigel the Elder and Gabriel Nikolaus Raspe. The supplemented works were also published under the titles of their respective publishers, such as: Fürstsches Wappenbuch, Helmersches Wappenbuch, Weigelsches Wappenbuch or Raspes Wappenbuch.
The Neuer Siebmacher, Siebmachers großes und allgemeines Wappenbuch was compiled 1854–1967  by Adolf Matthias Hildebrandt, Maximilian Gritzner, and Gustav A Seyler. The General-Index of the whole work has been edited by Hanns Jäger-Sunstenau. 
Later Ottfried Neubecker had published all burgher arms of the New Siebmacher without the text as a sort of illustrated glossary organized by the heraldic charges.
Nils Gustav Henry "Garvis" Carlsson (29 October 1917 – 28 May 1999),[1] was a Swedish professional footballer who played as a forward. He represented AIK, Stade Français, and Atletico Madrid during a club career that spanned between 1939 and 1953. A full international between 1941 and 1949, he won 26 caps for the Sweden national team and was part of the Sweden Olympic team that won the gold medal at the 1948 Summer Olympics.[2]
He was the father of Björn Carlsson, who also represented AIK in Allsvenskan and played for the Sweden national team.[3][4]
Atletico Madrid
Sweden
Individual
This article about a Swedish Olympic medalist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article related to an association football forward from Sweden is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Csaba Hegedűs (born 26 October 1985 in Pásztó) is a Hungarian football player. He plays for Taksony SE.[1]
He played his first league match in 2013.

This biographical article related to association football in Hungary, about a defender, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Congolese Progressive Party (French: Parti progressiste congolais, PPC) was a political party in Congo-Brazzaville. It was the first Congolese political party (founded by Jean-Félix Tchicaya in 1945), and the Congolese section of the African Democratic Rally (RDA). Until 1950 PPC was closely connected to the French Communist Party.[1] The party was largely based amongst the Vili people.[2] Aubert-Lucien Lounda was the General Secretary of the party.[3]
Many of the activists of the CGT trade union movement in Congo (which later became an independent trade union centre, CGAT) were members of the PPC.[4] The party had youth and women's sections, but these were not very active.[1] PPC published AEF Nouvelle between 1947 and 1949.[5]
PPC won the 1946 French National Assembly election in Moyen-Congo, obtaining 46% of the votes.[6] Tchicaya was elected Member of Parliament.[7] In the first Moyen-Congo Representative Council election, held in 1947, PPC got 62,5% of the votes.[6] PPC got 15 seats in the council, whilst French Section of the Workers' International (SFIO) got 9.[8] When the Communist Party was expelled from the French government in May 1947, it had repercussions in the PPC as well. The PPC suffered a series of disagreements as a result.[9]
PPC remained the most voted party in the 1951 French National Assembly election, winning 44% of the votes.[6] In the 1952 Moyen-Congo Representative Council election PPC got 34% of the votes.[6]
Two future Congolese statesmen, Fulbert Youlou and Alphonse Massamba-Débat, were members of the PPC at the time.[10] In 1956 they both left the party, and joined UDDIA.[11] With Youlou's rise to political prominence, the influence of PPC declined. In the 1956 municipal elections in Brazzaville, PPC got 2,478 and three seats (out of 37). In the PPC stronghold of Pointe-Noire, the party mustered to get 8 seats.[12]
In March 1957 a PPC-African Socialist Movement (MSA) alliance was formed. The PPC-MSA bloc obtained a majority, 25 seats (out of whom two seats were held by PPC), in the new Territorial Assembly of Moyen-Congo. A government led by the MSA leader Jacques Opangault was formed. But the alliance between PPC and MSA would not last. In September 1957 the majority fell apart, and UDDIA formed a new government.[12][13] In the same year, the RDA had broken its links with PPC and sided with UDDIA.[14] After the break with RDA, the PPC aligned itself with the African Regroupment Party (PRA).[15]
Jerzy Jurowicz (21 May 1920 – 19 October 1989) was a Polish footballer.[1] He played in eight matches for the Poland national football team from 1947 to 1950.[2]
This biographical article relating to Polish football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Prairie Green Township is one of twenty-six townships in Iroquois County, Illinois, USA.  As of the 2010 census, its population was 183 and it contained 92 housing units.[2]  Prairie Green Township was originally named Prairie Township, and was formed from Stockland Township, originally known as Crab Apple Township, in March 1857. The name was changed to Prairie Green Township in March 1858.
According to the 2010 census, the township has a total area of 40.67 square miles (105.3 km2), all land.[2]
(This list is based on USGS data and may include former settlements.)
The entire township once made up part of the Wellington School District.  The Wellington, IL schools closed in 1987 and later the township was divided between Milford and Hoopeston schools.
Residents of the township have consisted primarily of Christians of the Protestant tradition since the time of the township's founding.  Currently there is one church in Prairie Green Township, the Prairie Green Church of Christ.  Established in 1872 as the Hope Congregation of the Disciples of Christ, it located in Prairie Green Township shortly thereafter.  Since 1957, the church has been located in Greer.  An undenominational body, the church is identified with the Christian Churches and Churches of Christ and currently has approximately 50 active members and adherents.
The United Methodist (formerly Methodist Episcopal) denomination has also had a strong presence within the township since the 1800s.  The Pleasant Hill Methodist Church was once an active congregation in the Northeast part of the township, but closed in the early 1960s.  At that time the majority of members transferred to the Wellington Methodist Church (now Wellington United Methodist Church) in Lovejoy Township.
The New University of Brussels (French: Université nouvelle de Bruxelles) was a private university active in Brussels, Belgium between 1894 and 1919.
Its origins were in the Free University of Brussels, a liberal institution, which  became the subject of controversy in December 1892 when the anarchist geographer Élisée Reclus was prevented from teaching for political reasons. In the aftermath, a number of liberal and socialist members of faculty began to plan for an independent "new" university, eventually created in October 1894. It was libertarian in political outlook, and attracted a significant proportion of international students and faculty members. However, its degrees were not recognised by the Belgian government and it remained short of funds.
The New University was the only university in Belgium which continued teaching through the German occupation of Belgium during World War I. In 1919, however, it was decided to re-merge the institution with the Free University. Its last surviving remnant is the Institut des Hautes Etudes de Belgique which provides free public lectures and conferences.
Shahrak Rural District (Persian: دهستان شهرک) is in Eslamabad District of Parsabad County, Ardabil province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Shahrak-e Gharbi.[3]
After the 2011 National Census, villages were separated from the Central District in the establishment of Eslamabad District, which was divided into two rural districts.[3]
At the most recent census of 2016, the population of the rural district was 6,658 in 1,932 households. The most populous of its 55 villages was Shahrak-e Gharbi, with 745 people.[2]

This Parsabad County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Of Seismic Consequence is the fifth full-length studio album by Chicago-based progressive metal band Yakuza. It was released on June 22, 2010 by Profound Lore Records.
This 2010s metal album–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 67th season of the Campeonato Gaúcho kicked off on February 2, 1987 and ended on July 19, 1987. Fourteen teams participated. Holders Grêmio won their 25th title. Novo Hamburgo and São Borja were relegated.[1][2]
The championship would have two stages.:[2][1]
The Color of My Words is a young adult fiction book by Trinidadian author Lynn Joseph. It was published in 2000 by Harper-Collins.[1][2][3]
The book has also been translated into Korean as   그리그리나무위에는초록바다가있다 / Gŭri gŭri namu wi enŭn chʻorok pada ka itta and Spanish as El color de mis palabras.
In 2001, it received the category of Honor Book from Jane Addams Children's Book Award for older children.[4]
The book is set in the Dominican Republic.[5]
The Royal Chapel of Granada (Spanish: Capilla Real de Granada) is an Isabelline style building, constructed between 1505 and 1517, and originally integrated in the complex of the neighbouring Granada Cathedral. It is the burial place of the Spanish monarchs, Queen Isabella I and King Ferdinand, the Catholic Monarchs. Apart from these historical links, this building also contains a gallery of artworks and other items associated with Queen Isabella.
The Nasrid dynasty of Granada was the last Moorish dominion of Al-Andalus to fall in the Reconquista (Reconquest). This occurred in 1492 during the reign of the Catholic Monarchs, with the conquest of the city being an important stage of their combined reign. On September 13, 1504, they declared that they wanted their remains to be taken to Granada, and to this effect a royal charter was issued at Medina del Campo, Castile-León, for the Royal Chapel to be built. The charter states:
First we ordain that in the Cathedral of the city of Granada it made an honest chapel in which are, when the will of Our Lord be, our bodies buried. This chapel will be called Of the Kings under the invocation of Saint John the Baptist and Saint John the Evangelist.[1]The Royal Chapel was built between 1505 and 1517 in Isabelline Gothic style and dedicated to St. John the Baptist and St. John the Evangelist, with the construction under the direction of Enrique Egas in Gothic style. Juan Gil de Hontañón, Juan de Badajoz the Elder and Lorenzo Vázquez de Segovia were also involved in the construction project.[2]
Construction occurred during the lifetime of King Ferdinand, and the Chapel flourished under his successor Emperor Charles V, with the church decorated, and the supporting institution being enhanced.[3] The Capilla Real was the mausoleum of the Spanish royal family until the founding of El Escorial by Philip II.[4]
The Royal Chapel became one of the top tourist attractions in Granada in the latter half of the twentieth century.[citation needed] Recently there has been a restoration with the collaboration of the Ministry of Culture of the Junta de Andalucía and the Foundation Caja Madrid, along with other public and private contributions.
The interior of the chapel follows the same model as the Monastery of San Juan de los Reyes in Toledo. It has four side chapels, creating the form of a Latin cross[5] and a nave with a Gothic ribbed vault. The choir has a centered arch down to its base, and a crypt.
The passage to the presbytery creates a luminous effect to symbolize the sun and the light of justice (in an Albertian, Neo-Platonic sense). There is a hierarchy of the transept dedicated to mausoleum, which is separated by a monumental decorated grille forged by Bartolomé Ordoñez.
In the center of the transept lie the tombs of Isabella and Ferdinand by Domenico Fancelli and Joanna and Philip (by Bartolomé Ordóñez).[4] The tombs are set high and mark their priority and are almost at the height of the altar (symbolizes the closeness of the kings to God).
In the Royal Chapel can be seen the graves of:
In another tomb, by Bartolomé Ordóñez, is represented:
In the crypt is also the sarcophagus of the  infante Miguel da Paz, Prince of Portugal, grandson of the Catholic Monarchs, who died as a child.
The most important parts inside the temple are its main altar and reredos, the wrought-iron rood screen and the crypt with the five lead coffins containing the remains of kings and the little Infante, each recognizable by the initials of their names. 
The chapel is still dedicated to Catholic worship, and at certain times it is closed to tourists.
One may also visit the Sacristy-Museum, with the legacy of the Catholic Monarchs. Highlights of its gallery of paintings are works of the Flemish, Italian and Spanish schools, with paintings by authors like Juan de Flandes and Hans Memling as well as a rare example by Sandro Botticelli (Agony in the Garden) and other 15th century painters like Rogier van der Weyden, Dirk Bouts, Perugino and Bartolomé Bermejo.  Goldsmiths work on display includes the crown and the scepter of the Catholic Monarchs; tissues and books of the Queen.
In the angle between the Royal Chapel and the Sagrario is the Lonja, constructed in the year 1518 and dedicated to banking and commerce. It has recently been restored and can be visited, both for its architectural interest (the facade, the coffereds) and for the objects displayed inside (paintings, furniture).
Since its founding and for centuries, the Royal Chapel had masters who were in charge of the composing of music for liturgical functions, and direction of all matters relating to its interpretation. Between the functions of these musicians also found the education of the voices of the infantillos (or sixes) and care of the archive. To access to charge, applicants had to submit a public competition with ordeals of composition and musical knowledge, the result could only be the granting of the charges to genuine artists. Among the files that make up the music catalog of this institution stand out for their number and their extraordinary chronological extension, the corresponding to the work of Antonio Cavallero, who was appointed to the charge in 1757, replacing Pedro Furió and officially it leaves to die around 1822, closing an interesting relationship of tenured masters.
Other notable chapel masters of the Royal Chapel included:
37°10′33.55″N 3°35′56.53″W﻿ / ﻿37.1759861°N 3.5990361°W﻿ / 37.1759861; -3.5990361Rayo Muñoz, G. Castilian monarchy and dynastic memory: the financing of the Royal Chapel of Granada (1504–1526): https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17546559.2021.1972327?journalCode=ribs20
George de Mestral ((1907-06-19)19 June 1907 – (1990-02-08)8 February 1990) was a Swiss electrical engineer who invented the hook and loop fastener which he named Velcro.
He was born to Albert de Mestral, an agronomist engineer, and Marthe de Goumoëns in Saint Saphorin sur Morges, near Lausanne, Switzerland. De Mestral designed a toy airplane at age twelve and patented it. He attended the École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL). After graduation in 1930, he worked in the machine shop of an engineering company. He went for his favorite hobby of hunting and when he came back he discovered that his dog was covered with burs that had attached themselves to its fur. He then worked on inventing hook and loop fasteners for ten years starting in 1948. In 1955, he successfully patented hook and loop, eventually selling 60 million yards (about 55,000 km) a year through a multimillion-dollar company.
George was married three times: in 1932 to Jeanne Schnyder (two sons: Henri and François), in 1949 to Monique Panchaud de Bottens, onetime fiancée of James Bond creator Ian Fleming[1][2] (one son: Charles), and Helen Mary Dale.[clarification needed] On his father's death in 1966, de Mestral inherited the family home in Saint Saphorin sur Morges, château Saint-Saphorin-sur-Morges (Mestral Castle).
De Mestral died in Commugny, Switzerland, where he is buried. The municipality posthumously named an avenue, L'avenue George de Mestral, in his honour.[3]
He was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 1999 for inventing hook and loop fasteners.[4] He was made "Bourgeois d'Honneur" of Commugny, he was Honorary Member of the "Société Vaudoise des Ingénieurs et Architectes" he received the medal of the French "Société d'Encouragement au Progres"
De Mestral first conceptualised hook and loop after returning from a hunting trip with his dog in the Alps in 1941.[5][6][7] After removing several of the burdock burrs (seeds) that kept sticking to his clothes and his dog's fur, he became curious as to how it worked. He examined them under a microscope, and noted hundreds of "hooks" that caught on anything with a loop, such as clothing, animal fur, or hair.[8] He saw the possibility of binding two materials reversibly in a simple fashion,[6] if he could figure out how to duplicate the hooks and loops.[7]
Initially people refused to take him and his idea seriously. He took his idea to Lyon, which was then a centre of weaving, where he did manage to gain the help of one weaver, who made two cotton strips that worked. However, the cotton wore out quickly, so de Mestral turned to synthetic fibres.[8] He settled on nylon as being the best synthetic after, through trial and error, he eventually discovered that nylon forms hooks that were perfect for the hook side of the fastener when sewn under hot infrared light.[7] Though he had figured out how to make the hooks, he had yet to figure out a way to mechanise the process, and to make the looped side. Next he found that nylon thread, when woven in loops and heat-treated, retains its shape and is resilient, however, the loops had to be cut in just the right spot so that they could be fastened and unfastened many times. On the verge of giving up, a new idea came to him. He bought a pair of shears and trimmed the tops off the loops, thus creating hooks that would match up perfectly with the loops.[8]
Mechanising the process of the weave of the hooks took eight years, and it took another year to create the loom that trimmed the loops after weaving them. In all, it took ten years to create a mechanised process that worked.[8] He submitted his idea for patent in Switzerland in 1951 and the patent was granted in 1955.[7] De Mestral expected a high demand immediately. Within a few years, he received patents and subsequently opened shops in Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Canada. In 1957, he branched out to the textile centre of Manchester, New Hampshire in the United States.[8]
De Mestral gave the name Velcro, a portmanteau of the French words velours ("velvet"), and crochet ("hook"), to his invention as well as his company, which continues to manufacture and market the fastening system.[9][7]
However, hook and loop's integration into the textile industry took time, partly because of its appearance. Hook and loop in the early 1960s looked like it had been made from left-over bits of cheap fabric, an unappealing aspect for clothiers.[10] The first notable use for Velcro® brand hook and loop came in the aerospace industry, where it helped astronauts manoeuvre in and out of bulky space suits. Eventually, skiers noted the similar advantages of a suit that was easier to get in and out of. Scuba and marine gear followed soon after.
Dra. Lucía, un don extraordinario is a Mexican television series produced by TV Azteca. Marimar Vega stars as the titular character, alongside Kuno Becker, Ana Layevska and Mauricio Islas.[1] It premiered on Azteca Uno on 2 October 2023.[2]
In May 2023, the series was announced at the L.A. Screenings event.[5][6] On 6 July 2023, Marimar Vega, Kuno Becker, Ana Layevska and Mauricio Islas were cast in main roles.[1][7] Filming of the series began on 11 August 2023.[8][9] The series premiered on 2 October 2023.[2]
Pachyhynobius shangchengensis, the Shangcheng stout salamander, is a species of salamander in the family Hynobiidae. It is monotypic within the genus Pachyhynobius. It is named after its type locality, Shangcheng.[2] It is endemic to the Dabie Mountains in central China (Hubei, Henan, and Anhui Provinces). Its natural habitats are subtropical moist lowland forests, montane forests, and rivers. It is threatened by habitat loss.[1]
The Shancheng stout salamander is stout, with a cylindrical body and pronounced sexual dimorphism: the adult male develops a thick, broad head.[3] Adult males have a total length of 150–184 mm (5.9–7.2 in) and females of about 157–176 mm (6.2–6.9 in).[4]

This salamander article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Pioneers on Parade (1939) is a novel by Australian writers Miles Franklin and Dymphna Cusack.
The novel is set in Sydney during the sesqui-centenary celebrations and follows the story of the socially ambitious Mrs. du Mont-Brankston and the various visitors she receives during the celebrations.
A reviewer in The Argus referred to the book as a "Biting Sydney Satire" and went on: "Like a cold blast striking our complacent Australian faces comes this extraordinary novel by two gifted Australian women, who seem to have seen the 150th anniversary celebrations in Sydney through the wrong end of a telescope... The faults of the book lie in the character-drawing. Burlesque, melodrama, farce, and even drama give a confusing effect. Satire falls when it is not accurately and logically directed. Many of our national failings, however, are exposed in these pages in an entertaining way that might do some of us a little good, though most of us are probably past redemption, even by such forthright crusaders as Miss Franklin and Miss Cusack."[1]
"Habakkuk" in The Australasian also emphasised the satire and wit of the novel: "It has come along at last. A breath of tangy air blowing from fresh woods and pastures new over the dry and dusty soil in which so much of our Australian literature has its roots. We have our good writers. We get our good books from them each year. But how few of them make us laugh, or even smile. And scarce a one of them makes us chuckle. But now a new field of  Australian literary endeavour has been dug, and has produced a delicious, well-handled piece of satire to make us sit up and take notice, and feel that Australian writing has some thing bright to say for itself. And it has taken two women to do it."[2]
Maruf or Maroof is a town and union council of Okara District in the Punjab province of Pakistan.[1]
It is located at 30°34'0N 73°52'0E with an altitude of 170 metres (561 feet) [2]
30°34′0″N 73°52′0″E﻿ / ﻿30.56667°N 73.86667°E﻿ / 30.56667; 73.86667

This article about a location in Okara District, Punjab, Pakistan is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Risto Rosendahl (born 23 November 1979) is a Finnish speed skater. He competed at the 2002 Winter Olympics and the 2006 Winter Olympics.[1]

This biographical article on a speed skater in Finland is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A Biography of the Rev. Absalom Dawe is a solo album by English saxophonist John Surman, recorded in October 1994 and released on ECM the following year.[1]
The Penguin Guide to Jazz Recordings included the album in its suggested “core collection” of essential recordings.[2]
The AllMusic review by Stacia Proefrock stated: "John Surman is an artist with an amazing range and depth of style, from contemporary classical to jazz to electronic music. In few places is this more evident than on A Biography of the Rev. Absalom Dawe, on which Surman acts as a sort of one-man wind chamber ensemble... Elements of modern composition, jazz, and European folk can be heard throughout and the mood is one of reflection and wintry quiet. Overall, this is one of Surman's most daring and yet most successful projects to date."[3]
All tracks are written by John Surman.
Abishai was a military leader under the biblical King David. He was the eldest son of David's sister Zeruiah. According to Josephus (Antiquities, VII, 1, 3) his father was called Suri.[1] The meaning of his name is "Father of a gift".[2] He was the brother of Joab and Asahel.[3]
Abishai was the only one who accompanied David when he went to the camp of Saul and took the spear and water bottle from Saul as he slept.[4]
After a battle between Judah and Israel, his brother Asahel chased the northern army's general Abner, and was killed by the back of Abner's spear.[5] Joab and Abishai were enraged at the death of Asahel, and later murdered Abner. David disowned responsibility for the murder, led a national lament for Abner, and pronounced a curse on Joab and Abishai, saying, "these men the sons of Zeruiah are too hard for me; the LORD reward the evildoer according to his wickedness."[6]
Abishai had the command of one of the three divisions of David's army at the battle with Absalom.[7] He was the commander and "most honoured" of the second rank of David's officers, below the three "mighty men".[8] On one occasion, he withstood 300 men and slew them with his own spear.[9]
Abishai slew the Philistine giant Ishbi-benob, who threatened David's life.[10]  In the Haggadah, this incident is elaborated with miraculous details.[11] The Sanhedrin tractate in the Talmud says that Orpah (mother of Goliath and Ishbi-benob)was killed by King David's general Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, with her own spindle.[12]
Abisha or Abishai is also the name of the Semitic chief who offers gifts to the lord of Beni-Hassan in an inscription at that site in Middle Egypt.[13]
https://sarata.com/bible/chapter/Chronicles-1.2.html#2:16
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Easton, Matthew George (1897). "Abishai". Easton's Bible Dictionary (New and revised ed.). T. Nelson and Sons.

This article related to the Hebrew Bible is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Celestyal Crystal is a cruise ship, operated between 2007 and 2023 by the Cyprus-based Louis Group's Louis Cruise Lines and Celestyal Cruises. The ship was originally built as the cruiseferry Viking Saga in the 1980 at Wärtsilä Perno Shipyard and Turku Shipyard, Turku, Finland for Rederi Ab Sally. In 1986 she was renamed Sally Albatross, and rebuilt into a cruise ship the following year. The ship was destroyed by a fire in 1990, and completely rebuilt at Finnyards, Rauma, Finland. She was re-delivered in 1992, still named Sally Albatross. After partially sinking 1994 she was rebuilt at Industrie Navali Meccaniche Affini, La Spezia, Italy, re-entering service as Leeward for Norwegian Cruise Line. Subsequently she sailed as SuperStar Taurus for Star Cruises, Silja Opera for Silja Line. After being temporarily renamed Opera she was in service with Louis Group as Louis Cristal and later Celestyal Crystal.[1]
The ship was originally built in 1980 for Rederi Ab Sally, one of Viking Line partners as the cruiseferry MS Viking Saga. The bow and stern modules were built at Wärtsilä Turku Shipyard and the middle part was made at Wärtsilä Perno Shipyard. The modules were assembled together and the ship was launched in Perno and the hull was tugged after to Turku Shipyard for outfitting.[2]
In 1979-1981 the Baltic ferry operators Silja Line and Viking Line brought several new cruiseferries to the routes connecting Stockholm to Helsinki and Turku. Viking Line received a total of four new ships in 1980 alone, three of which were built for Rederi AB Sally. The Viking Saga and her sister ship MS Viking Song were built by Wärtsilä (now Aker Finnyards) in Turku, Finland. MS Viking Sally (later MS Estonia) was built at the Meyer Werft shipyard in Papenburg, Germany. Two of the Sally ships have been involved in a total of three serious accidents. The Viking Saga was the first genuine cruiseferry in Finland — Sweden traffic. The interior and exterior design of her and her sister was heavily influenced by those of GTS Finnjet of 1977. The Viking Saga and Viking Song, alongside Silja Line's contemporary MS Finlandia and MS Silvia Regina, were instrumental in turning the Helsinki — Stockholm route into a popular cruise route.
In June 1982, the ship was sold by Rederi Ab Sally to Suomen Yritysrahoitus, who chartered her back to Sally.[2] In 1985 the Viking Saga hit bottom near Sandhamn in the Stockholm archipelago, and had to be docked in Stockholm.[6]
After MS Olympia replaced her on the Helsinki — Stockholm route in April 1986, the Viking Saga was rebuilt for use as a cruise ship at Wärtsilä Helsinki New Shipyard.[2] She did not become a "real" cruise ship as her cardecks were not built in. During conversion there was a fire on board, but it was extinguished by the shipyard staff.[6] Renamed Sally Albatross, the ship entered service for the new Sally Cruise brand in May 1986. She was mainly used for cruising around the Baltic Sea from Helsinki.[2]
In 1987 Rederi Ab Sally was sold to its rivals Effoa and Johnson Line.[2] In January–February 1988 the Sally Albatross was comprehensively rebuilt at Schichau Seebeckwerft, Bremerhaven, West Germany, where additional cabin were built on the former upper cardeck, the forward superstructure was built to a more streamlined appearance and smaller changes were made to the bow and other parts of the superstructure.[6] At the same time the ships livery was altered, in addition to the light and dark blue stripes running along the hull black stripes were painted along the windows of the superstructure, giving the ship an even more streamlined appearance. The cost of the reconstruction was 35 million Finnish markka.[2]
In January 1990, while docked at the Finnboda Shipyard in Nacka, Sweden, for reconstruction of the ship's restaurants, nightclub and conference facilities, practically the entire superstructure of the ship was damaged beyond repair by a fire which had started from drops of liquid metal sparkling on flammable material. The ships' sprinkler system was turned off for the duration of the docking, fire hydrants were dry and the temporary fire water supply was disconnected. In addition to this the fire watchman left for lunch during the hot work. Due to the danger of gas bottles (oxy-acetylene used in the reconstruction) exploding in the heat, the fire brigade withdrew from the interior of two decks under reconstruction, after having rescued the two crew members that were missing during the initial phase of the fire. Further fire fighting was conducted from the outside and from the decks above and below the reconstruction work. As a result, the ship burned extensively for three days.
All workers and crew (and an American actress who had been on board) were rescued by the fire brigade and a crane operator from the shipyard and there were no deaths.[6]
The burnt-out hull was first towed to Mäntyluoto, Finland, where she was partially scrapped, leaving only the hull below cardeck intact. After this the remains were towed into Naantali, Finland where the remaining hull was cut into several sections. These were then transported to Finnyards shipyard in Rauma, Finland where they were used as the basis of a new ship with the project name Sally Eurocruiser.[2] She was to be a genuine cruiseship, without a cardeck. The hull was lengthened by 13 meters compared to the original, and the passenger (cabin) capacity was increased by 452, so the new ship was actually larger than the old one.[4] One notable piece retained from the original ship were the engines.[2] The cost of the rebuilding was approximately 700 million Finnish markka.[4] In essence this was a completely new ship, and she is usually listed as such in most sources. Her owners decided to keep the name Sally Albatross, which has led to some sources (and many passengers) to consider the second Sally Albatross to be the same ship as the first.
The new Sally Albatross was delivered to Sally Cruise on 23 March 1992 and started doing cruises in the Baltic Sea with Helsinki as the port of departure, in a similar arrangement as she had done in the late 80's. In July of the same year she was chartered to Svea 92 (a Swedish consortium for advancing exports) as a hotel and conference ship for the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona for 1 000 000 Finnish markka per day. Originally Svea 92 had wanted to charter Silja Line's Swedish-flagged MS Svea (which would have matched the name better). In September that same year Sally Albatross was transferred to Silja Line, who also were a part of the EffJohn concern. Despite joining the Silja fleet Sally Albatross' old colour scheme and Sally Cruise funnel colours were maintained.[4]
Although the 1980 ship and the 1992 ship appear unalike, both externally and internally, they share the same IMO number because they are technically the same ship.[1]
On 4 March 1994 Sally Albatross ran aground in the ice covered sea outside Porkkala. She was towed to shallow waters and her passengers evacuated. After this the ship was left on site, listing badly. While preparations were made to re-float her. Re-floating the ship proved to be a complicated process, and it was not until 16 April that the ship was afloat again. She was then towed to the abandoned Vuosaari shipyard (where she arrived on 20 April) where the most necessary repairs were made.[7] After inspection it was determined that the cost to repair the damage would be around 200 million FIM ($35 million USD).[4]
In October 1994 the ship was towed to La Spezia, Italy where she was repaired and rebuilt for international cruise traffic. She was then chartered to Norwegian Cruise Line who renamed her Leeward and put her on cruises in the Bahamas from July 1995 onwards. In March 2000 the ship was chartered for three years to Star Cruises (owners of Norwegian Cruise Line) who renamed her Superstar Taurus and used her on various cruises around Asia, mostly cruising from Japan. In December 2001 Star Cruises broke the charter contract and the ship was once again in the hands of Silja Line.[4]
Superstar Taurus sailed back to Europe, and between February and June 2002 she was vastly rebuilt at Turku Repair Yard, Naantali, Finland for cruise service on the Baltic Sea. On 1 June 2002 the ship was renamed Silja Opera and placed under Swedish flag. Silja Opera (re)started cruising the Baltic Sea on 29 June 2002, with Helsinki as the starting point. She followed a similar itinerary as she had done as Sally Albatross, making one-day cruise from Helsinki and two-night cruises to Visby, Riga (discontinued after one season) and St. Petersburg.[4] The ship already had a reputation as a ship of bad luck amongst the public (she had after all burnt out completely once and partially sunk only a few years later, in addition to smaller mishaps), and this was not helped when in September 2003 she collided with three cargo-ships in Saint Petersburg, resulting in minor damage to all parties. Less than two months later, in almost precisely same spot, she collided with a Russian icebreaker.[8]
Silja Opera's cruises from Helsinki were not very popular, and in October 2004 she began making cruises from Stockholm to Tallinn (via Mariehamn in order to have tax-free sales on board). These too failed to find popularity, and in February 2005 she was transferred back to cruising from Helsinki.[4] Around this same time her white-dominant livery was changed to one closely resembling her Sally-era livery, but with blue stripes instead of black. With the ship continuing to lose money, in September 2005 Silja Line made public its plans to use cheaper foreign workforce on board. However they could not do so under the terms Swedish maritime worker's collective labour agreement.[8] Two months later Silja Line decided to cut costs by concentrating on their core markets and the Silja Opera, alongside the prestigious GTS Finnjet, was to be sold.[8] In January 2006 Silja Opera made her last cruises from Helsinki, after which she was transferred to the Turku—Mariehamn—Kapellskär route in place of MS Silja Europa (that was in turn transferred to Helsinki—Stockholm route while the normal ships of that route were being rebuilt). On 13 February 2006, the Silja Opera stopped sailing for Silja Line, and three days later she was laid up Stockholm, waiting for potential buyers.[4]
On 22 May 2006, Silja Opera left Stockholm for the last time bound for lay up at Tilbury Docks, located to the east of Greater London. The ship arrived on 25 May, soon afterwards the Silja Line markings were painted over and her ownership was transferred to SeaContainers, then the parent company of Silja Line. At the same time she was changed from Swedish to Bahamian flag and her name was shortened to Opera.[4]
In May 2007 the Opera was sold to the Cyprus-based Louis Cruise Lines to replace MS Sea Diamond that had sunk some months before. After rebuilding at Pireus, Greece the ship was renamed MS Crystal and started service for the Louis Hellenic Cruise Lines -brand in July 2007.[4]
As part of Louis Cruise Lines re-brand as Celestyal Cruises, announced in November 2014, Crystal was renamed Celestyal Crystal[9] and received a new livery.
On 27 June 2015, Celestyal Crystal collided with the tanker STI Pimlico in the Dardanelles off Gallipoli, Turkey. Three people sustained minor injuries.[10][11]
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic all cruises from March 16, 2020 to March 6, 2021 were suspended.[12]
Following the acquisition of the new Celestyal Journey, Celestyal Crystal was phased out, ending her last cruise on 20 August 2023. It was reported that the ship was sold to Shimizu Cruises, to operate as Erena on cruises in Japan starting from 2024, but this was denied by Celestyal.[13][14]
Ilaria Zane (born 10 February 1992) is an Italian professional triathlete.[2]
Zane won two national championships at individual senior level.
Communism and intellectuals—France—History—20th century.
Past Imperfect: French Intellectuals, 1944–1956 is a nonfiction book written by Tony Judt and was originally published by  University of California Press in 1992.[1][2][3][4][5][6] On page 11, Judt describes this book as, "an essay on intellectual irresponsibility, a study of the moral condition of the intelligentsia in postwar France."[4][7]
This book is currently published by the New York University Press.[8]
In Past Imperfect: French Intellectuals, 1944–1956, Judt moved away from social history toward intellectual history, and from the endorsement of French Left and Marxist traditions to their critique. In Past Imperfect, he castigated French intellectuals of the postwar era, above all Jean-Paul Sartre, for their "self-imposed moral amnesia".[9] Judt criticized what he considered blind faith in Joseph Stalin's communism. In Judt's reading, French thinkers such as Sartre were blinded by their own provincialism, and unable to see that their calls for intellectual authenticity should have required them to interrogate their own attachment to communism and criticize the Soviet Union for its policies in postwar eastern Europe.[3]
According to David L. Schalk, contributing to The American Historical Review, this book received a "laudatory front-page review in The New York Times Book Review."[4] Jean-Francois Sirinelli, a respected professional historian, reviewed this book for the French publication Le Monde and found it deserving of praise.[4]
William Grimes of The New York Times writes: "[Past Imperfect]" is fluidly written, with a strong narrative drive and an insistent, polemical edge..." Also, he writes that this book and another that Judt wrote, The Burden of Responsibility "...established Mr. Judt as a historian whose ability to see the present in the past gave his work an unusual air of immediacy."[10]
Oliver Wood (June 25, 1825 – June 25, 1893) was a Union Army colonel during the American Civil War.  
Oliver Wood began his Civil War service as a first lieutenant in the 3-month 22nd Ohio Infantry Regiment.[1] He was mustered out of the volunteers on August 19, 1861.[1] After serving as a captain from November 1, 1861 and major from May 10, 1862, Wood was appointed colonel in command of the 22nd Ohio Infantry Regiment, September 16, 1862.[1] After being mustered out of the volunteers on November 18, 1864, Wood was appointed colonel of the 4th United States Veteran Volunteer Infantry, December 29, 1864.[1] He had temporary brigade commands during parts of late 1862, 1863 and 1864 with the Army of the Tennessee, the Army of Arkansas and the Department of Arkansas.[1] He was mustered out of the volunteers again on March 1, 1866.[1]
On February 24, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Walker for appointment to the grade of brevet brigadier general of volunteers, to rank from March 13, 1865, and the United States Senate confirmed the appointment on April 10, 1866.[2]
Wood was a postmaster and judge after the war.[1] Oliver Wood died at Port Townsend, Washington, June 25, 1893.[1] He was buried at Laurel Grove Cemetery, Port Townsend.[1]

This article about a person of the American Civil War is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Wood River is a town in Burnett County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. The population was 953 at the 2010 census.[3] The unincorporated community of Alpha is located within the town.
Wood River is located in southwestern Burnett County. According to the United States Census Bureau. The town has a total area of 35.7 square miles (92.4 km2), of which 34.1 square miles (88.2 km2) is land and 1.6 square miles (4.2 km2), or 4.60%, is water.[3]
As of the census[2] of 2000, there were 974 people, 374 households, and 277 families residing in the town.  The population density was 28.6 people per square mile (11.0/km2).  There were 546 housing units at an average density of 16.0 per square mile (6.2/km2).  The racial makeup of the town was 97.43% White, 0.10% African American, 1.13% Native American, 0.31% Asian, 0.10% from other races, and 0.92% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.82% of the population.
There were 374 households, out of which 31.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 63.9% were married couples living together, 6.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 25.7% were non-families. 21.7% of all households were made up of individuals, and 7.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.60 and the average family size was 3.06.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 25.8% under the age of 18, 7.0% from 18 to 24, 25.5% from 25 to 44, 27.9% from 45 to 64, and 13.9% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females, there were 106.4 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 109.0 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $40,476, and the median income for a family was $47,981. Males had a median income of $35,250 versus $21,176 for females. The per capita income for the town was $20,500.  About 5.2% of families and 6.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14.2% of those under age 18 and 0.7% of those age 65 or over.
Ait Abbas is a small town and rural commune in Azilal Province of the Tadla-Azilal region of Morocco. At the time of the 2004 census, the commune had a total population of 10391 people living in 1460 households.[1]
32°20′N 6°21′W﻿ / ﻿32.333°N 6.350°W﻿ / 32.333; -6.350

This Béni Mellal-Khénifra location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Dipak Kumar Ray (c. 1930 - 11 February 2012) was an Indian-born physician who worked in general practice in Wales. He is best known for promoting equal opportunities and campaigning against racism in the medical profession in the 1970s.
Dipak Ray was born in Cuttack, Orissa, India, around 1930.[1] His family contributed to the Indian independence movement, resulting in Ray's arrest at age 11.[2] He completed his medical training in Calcutta and did some work in the United States before arriving in the United Kingdom during the 1950s.[1]
He settled in Blackwood, Caerphilly, South Wales, where he then remained in general practice.[2]
He had one son, Indranil, and two grandchildren, Shonali and Mitali. His wife was a teacher and socialist, Rekha.[2]
By the early 1960s, Ray was a general practitioner (GP) in South Wales.[1] He is best known for promoting equal opportunities and campaigning against racism in the medical profession in the 1970s.[3][4] He was also a columnist for the magazine Doctor and wrote for Tribune.[2]
During the 1970s and 1980s, Ray supported the Medical Practitioners' Union on the British Medical Association's general medical services committee. He was active in public debate, disclosing racism in the medical profession, pushing healthcare motions. endeavouring to end private treatment in NHS hospitals and being involved with the TUC and Association of Scientific, Technical and Managerial Staffs.[2][5]
He was a commissioner of the Commission for Racial Equality.[2]
Ray was amongst the forerunners of patient participation in the organisation of GP surgeries.[1]
In 2009, Ray was presented with a Labour party merit award for his involvement in the Labour party.[3]
Ray died on 11 February 2012 at the age of 82.[2]
His story was one of forty-five oral histories in Julian M. Simpson's Migrant architects of the NHS; South Asian doctors and the reinvention of British general practice (1940s-1980s), used to demonstrate how imperial legacies and medical migration shaped the UK's healthcare in the first four decades following the founding of the NHS.[5]
Rohrmoos-Untertal is a former municipality in the district of Liezen in Styria, Austria. Since the 2015 Styria municipal structural reform, it is part of the municipality Schladming.[2]
In the mountains to the south of the municipality (Zinkwand, Vetternspitze), mining was carried out, mainly for silver, nickel and zinc.
(Mining from the early Middle Ages to the 19th century; see at List of show mines)


This Styria location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sandra C. Cano (born 1983) is an American politician from the state of Rhode Island. She serves in the Rhode Island Senate, representing District 8. Cano is a member of the Democratic Party.
Cano was born in Medellín, Colombia. In 2000, at the age of 16,[1] she moved with her family to the United States.[2]  She graduated from Bryant University, the University of Rhode Island's graduate program in public administration, and Harvard University's Executive Leadership Program.[3]
Cano served as an at-large city councilwoman for Pawtucket, Rhode Island after serving on the city's school board. She won a special election on April 3, 2018, to succeed James Doyle II in the Rhode Island Senate.[4] On January 12, 2021, Cano was appointed chairperson of the Senate Committee on Education for the 2021-2022 session.[5]
On March 20, 2023, Cano declared her candidacy to represent Rhode Island's 1st congressional district in the United States House of Representatives in the 2023 special election.[6]
Cano's fiance, James Diossa, is the general treasurer of Rhode Island. They have two children together.[7]

This article about a Rhode Island politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Khawla S. Al-Kuraya is a Saudi physician and cancer specialist. She is a professor of pathology and directs the King Fahad National Center for Children's Cancer and Research.
Al-Kuraya was born in the Al Jawf Region of Saudi Arabia. She was admitted to King Saud University in Riyadh and earned her MD in general surgery and medicine.[1] She completed her residency in clinical pathology in Washington D.C. at Georgetown University Hospital. She then completed a fellowship in molecular diagnostics and hematopathology at the National Cancer Institute.
Al-Kuraya first identified the FOSM1 gene, which prompts the human body to form cancer cells.[2]
For her cancer research Al-Kuraya was awarded the Order of Abdulaziz al Saud in 2010. She was the first Saudi woman to receive the award.[2] Saudi newspapers and television depicted King Abdullah shaking her hand and placing the medal around her neck. The public display of proximity to an unrelated woman was unprecedented at the time.[3]
She was among 30 women who in 2013 were appointed by King Abdullah to the Consultative Assembly of Saudi Arabia, an advisory body that proposes laws.[4]
"Secondo" is the third episode of the third season of the psychological thriller–horror series Hannibal. It is the 29th overall episode of the series and was written by producer Angelina Burnett, series creator Bryan Fuller, and executive producer Steve Lightfoot and directed by Vincenzo Natali. It was first broadcast on June 18, 2015, on NBC. 
The series is based on characters and elements appearing in Thomas Harris' novels Red Dragon and Hannibal, with focus on the relationship between FBI special investigator Will Graham (Hugh Dancy) and Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Mads Mikkelsen), a forensic psychiatrist destined to become Graham's most cunning enemy. The episode revolves around Will Graham travelling to Hannibal Lecter's childhood home in Lithuania in order to discover more about him. There, he discovers a woman that makes some revelations about Lecter's sister.
According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was seen by an estimated 1.69 million household viewers and gained a 0.5/2 ratings share among adults aged 18–49. The episode received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the episode's visual style and Natali's directing, but critics also expressed discomfort with the episode's slow pace.
At his residence in Florence, Lecter (Mads Mikkelsen) has a conversation with Bedelia (Gillian Anderson), who feels concerned about his actions and worries that he might get caught, although Lecter deduces she is actually worried about herself.
In Aukštaitija, Lithuania, Graham (Hugh Dancy) sneaks into Lecter's old and seemingly abandoned estate. He imagines himself having a therapy session with Lecter on the grounds of the estate. Then, he finds a woman (Tao Okamoto) hunting with a shotgun at the estate. At night, Graham ventures into a basement where he discovers a man (Julian Richings) caged in a cell and is discovered by the woman. The woman states that the man in the cage killed and ate Lecter's younger sister Mischa and has been the subject of psychological and mental torture for years. The woman is named Chiyoh and attended Lecter's aunt. She didn't let Lecter kill his sister's murderer and she has guarded over him for years.
Lecter and Bedelia invite Sogliato (Rinaldo Rocco) for dinner, where Lecter suddenly kills him by stabbing him with an ice pick in the head. As Sogliato laughs, Bedelia removes the ice pick, causing him to drop dead, with Lecter noting that she technically killed him. They later question Lecter's intentions and thoughts about Graham and the influence on himself. Crawford (Laurence Fishburne) is revealed to be alive and arriving at Florence, meeting with Pazzi (Fortunato Cerlino). They find similarities on Dimmond's mutilation compared to other murders committed by Lecter.
Not believing that the man killed Mischa, Graham releases the man from the cage. The man then attacks Chiyoh, forcing her to kill him. She realizes that Graham knew this would happen, as he wanted to prove that she is just part of Lecter's manipulation. With the man dead, she decides to leave the estate, joining Graham on his quest to find Lecter. Graham then displays the man's corpse in the chamber to make it look like a dragonfly. Bedelia later questions Lecter about his past, deducing that while he didn't kill Mischa, he ate her to "forgive her" for influencing him to "betray" himself. Lecter notes that in order to forgive Graham, he must eat him.
In October 2014, Bryan Fuller announced that the second episode of the season would be titled "Primavera".[1] In March 2015, Fuller announced that Vincenzo Natali would direct the episode.[2] NBC would confirm the title in May 2015, with producer Angelina Burnett, Fuller and executive producer Steve Lightfoot writing the episode and Natali directing. This was Fuller's 24th writing credit, Burnett's first writing credit, Lightfoot's 13th writing credit, and Natali's fifth directing credit.[3]
According to Fuller, the repercussions of the second season finale would not be revealed until "episode 2 or 3." The episode reveals Jack Crawford's fate, revealing he survived his wounds.[4] In September 2014, Laurence Fishburne confirmed that despite his commitment to Black-ish, he would return as Crawford on the third season.[5]
At the 2014 San Diego Comic-Con, Fuller confirmed that Lady Murasaki would make her debut in the episode.[6] In October 2014, Tao Okamoto was announced to play Lady Murasaki, "who possesses an alluring and classical beauty with a dark secret."[7] However, Fuller clarified that Okamoto would play Chiyoh, Lady Murasaki's attendant.[8]
The episode was watched by 1.69 million viewers, earning a 0.5/2 in the 18-49 rating demographics on the Nielsen ratings scale. This means that 0.5 percent of all households with televisions watched the episode, while 2 percent of all households watching television at that time watched it.[9] This was a slight increase from the previous episode, which was watched by 1.66 million viewers with a 0.5/2 in the 18-49 demographics.[10] With these ratings, Hannibal ranked third on its timeslot and eleventh for the night in the 18-49 demographics, behind an the 2015 U.S. Open Golf, Aquarius, Elementary rerun, Mistresses, a The Odd Couple rerun, a Mom rerun, The Astronaut Wives Club, a Mike & Molly rerun, Dateline NBC, and a The Big Bang Theory rerun.
With DVR factored, the episode was watched by 2.30 million viewers with a 0.8 on the 18-49 demo.[11]
"Secondo" received generally positive reviews from critics. Eric Goldman of IGN gave the episode a "great" 8.5 out of 10 and wrote in his verdict: "One by one, we're finding out what happened to everyone after last season, and this week it was Jack's turn. But unlike the more specifically focused installments in the first two episodes, this time out we followed Jack as he met up with Rinaldo, Will as he traveled to Hannibal's childhood home and Hannibal and Bedelia as they continued to prove to be one lethal couple. With this many players now all overseas, it seems we're ripe for them to come to a collision – one Hannibal is now actively seeking out. Since the show began, he was trying to connect with Will, and I suppose that's what he still wants to do – but this time, it's by eating him. Watch out, Will."[12]
Molly Eichel of The A.V. Club gave the episode an "A−" and wrote, "What's so impressive about 'Secondo' is it allows the show to take us back into Lecter's past, back to his origin, but refuses to give the audience, or Hannibal, an easy out. Hannibal was never a victim. He was always in control. So thoroughly in control, in fact, that he's used this explanation of his tragic childhood to control the lives of others."[13]
Alan Sepinwall of HitFix wrote, "'Secondo' was definitely at the extreme end of the show's fuzzy new normal. It's the first Hannibal episode in a while to make me impatient through some of the dream sequences and other macabre imagery (this season loves extreme close-ups of snails in motion), particularly during Will's visit to the rundown Lecter family estate in Lithuania."[14] Mark Rozeman of Paste gave the episode a 8.1 out of 10 and wrote, "Overall, 'Secondo' is an episode with a lot of promise, but little pay-off. Again, the information presented here could all prove to be essential down the line, but it comes across as little more than a beautifully crafted fodder entry. Of course, like the majority of latter day Hannibal episodes, there may very well be dense layers of meaning that will become clearer after a second viewing. As of now, it hopefully represents the odd ball in a season that has, so far, proven to be exceptional."[15] Jeff Stone of IndieWire gave the episode a "C+" and wrote, "I removed the “wonderfully” from the title, since this episode is basically an unsubtle moment in its entirety. Hannibal, as a show, is a really delicate balancing act. It's over-the-top as a general rule, and with its lingering close-ups, often half-baked philosophizing, and grandiose murder tableaus, it’s to the creative staff's credit that the show doesn't more often dissolve into kitsch."[16]
Brian Moylan of The Guardian wrote, "The most intoxicating aspect of Hannibal has always been the creepy atmosphere, the shrieking score, and the swamps of blood that the characters are wading through in a bleak landscape. This episode was a little bit more Gothic allure than it was substance, but I'll take being bewitched by an episode of Hannibal than most other shows anyday."[17] Keith Staskiewicz of Entertainment Weekly wrote, "A true communion. Hannibal comes to the inevitable realization that the only way he can truly forgive Will is to eat him, an act that's for once not out of dominance, but pure terrifying love."[18] Chuck Bowen of Slant Magazine wrote, "This is all growing rather fussily symbolic, occasionally bordering on the tedious, as parallels upon parallels are affixed to the primary thread existing between the leads."[19]
Kayti Burt of Den of Geek gave the episode a 3 star rating out of 5 and wrote, "Like Hannibal Lecter, 'Secondo' entrances, but doesn't create a cohesive or compelling narrative in the same way the season's first two installments — which focused entirely on Hannibal and Will's post-season two states-of-mind, respectively — did. Still, who can turn away from a show this gorgeously shot, acted, and written? Not me."[20] Nick McHatton of TV Fanatic gave the episode a 4.25 star rating out of 5 and wrote, "The visuals, again. I loved the shattered glass theme that went through the show, including the breaking ice that make the Titanic cocktail. My favorite this time was the shattered glass distorted view of Hannibal's American home, as Will imagined Hannibal's memory palace."[21] Emma Dibdin of Digital Spy wrote, "Whether or not we entirely believe him is a different story, but it's certainly true that this episode humanises Hannibal without remotely trying to explain him. 'Secondo' sees Will going back to the Lecter family's roots in Lithuania, examining Hannibal's childhood home 'to measure where and if he's broken', but what he finds out makes Hannibal seem, if anything, even more monstrous than ever."[22]
Adam Lehrer of Forbes wrote, "Director Vincenzo Natali, who also directed the premiere 'Antipaso,' has done a stunning job of shooting these episodes. Much like his underrated film The Cube, Hannibal takes place in the mind; not so much in dreams, but in motivations. In perspectives. But at the same time he delivers us classic horror, when Will displayed the old man's head on a cross at the end, I was reminded of the horrific flair displayed by Dario Argento's giallo horror classics like Tenebrae, in which horror is given an erotic allure."[23] Britt Hayes of ScreenCrush wrote, "Acceptance, understanding, forgiveness... betrayal. These are necessary components in every relationship — they are not always pleasant and not always kind, but without them love is not capable of existing. Just as Will began to understand Hannibal's twisted affection for him with last week's bloody valentine, so does Will begin to understand his own affection for Hannibal this week. Just like any relationship, the results are exceedingly complex."[24]
Anga Makubalo (born 15 March 1989), popularly known by his musical name NaakMusiQ, is a South African actor and musician. He is best known for his roles in the popular TV programs Generations, Z’bondiwe and Isidingo. He is one of the Top 6 of Sowetan's Mzansi's Sexiest 2013.[1]
He was born on 15 March 1989 in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, South Africa. He moved to Johannesburg with his mother, Nomvula. His father was Musi Qaqambile. He has one brother Khanyiso and one sister, Asanda. He also has two sons Milani, and Mlisela and a girl Ebba.He joined Edenvale High School in 2003 for education. During school times, he was good at several games such as soccer, rugby, athletics, and cricket.[2] After finishing school, he joined with Talent International, and studied presenting and acting, where he later became a part-time mentor and coach. In 2009, he moved to Damelin, Bramley, and studied contemporary music at Damelin.
After studying contemporary music, he began his musical career with the help of his friend Rokker Rogerz who introduced him to Lunga Nombewu of Baainar Records. He later became the first vocalist to be signed under Baainar label as well. He released several hit songs such as Ndiyindoda, Move, Ntombi Ethandwayo, Crazy and Qina. In 2015, he joined Afrotainment and released only  one album which was released on 31 October 2016. The album consists with a total of 14 Naakmusiq songs such as What Have You Done, Children, Miss Me and Give and Take My Piano.[3][2]
In 2010, he first auditioned for the role 'Nicolus' but was unsuccessful due to inability to speak Tswana. Then he made a guest appearance on the television serial Mino Mania in 2011 as a singer in a minor role. In 2019, he released the single 'Ndakwenza Ntoni'. In 2020, he released the single 'Camagu' together with Mobi Dixon.[3][2]
In 2011, he joined the cast of Generations and played the role of 'MJ Memela'.[2] Then he continued to appear in several television serials such as Z’bondiwe season 1, 2, and 3, and played the role 'Ntando Mabatha' started in 2015.[4] He also became the host of the program 'All Access Mzansi Season 10' together with Mbali Nkosi in 2015.[3]
In early April 2022, Makubalo was announced to be the host of Tropika Island Of Treasure All Stars.[5]
Korba is one of 11 Lok Sabha parliamentary constituency in Chhattisgarh state in India. It was formed as per the recommendation of the Delimitation Commission.
Korba Lok Sabha constituency is composed of the following assembly segments:[1]
22°20′N 82°46′E﻿ / ﻿22.34°N 82.76°E﻿ / 22.34; 82.76
2. http://www.elections.in/chhattisgarh/parliamentary-constituencies/korba.html
The 2007–08 Scottish Junior Cup was a competition in Scottish Junior football. It was won for the first time by Bathgate Thistle after they defeated Cumnock Juniors 2–1 in the final at Rugby Park, Kilmarnock.[1]
Under a recent rule change, the Junior Cup winners (along with winners of the North, East and West regional leagues) qualify for the senior Scottish Cup; Bathgate Thistle therefore competed in the 2008–09 Scottish Cup.
These ties were scheduled to take place on Saturday 6 October 2007.
These ties were scheduled to take place on Saturday 3 November 2007.
These ties were scheduled to take place on 1 December 2007.
These ties were scheduled to take place on 19 January 2008.
These ties were scheduled to take place on 16 February 2008.
These ties were scheduled to take place on 15 March 2008.
These ties were played on 12 April and 19 April 2008, respectively, at Broadwood Stadium, Cumbernauld.
The final took place on 1 June 2008, at Rugby Park, Kilmarnock.
Bocanda is a town in east-central Ivory Coast. It is a sub-prefecture of and seat of Bocanda Department in N'Zi Region, Lacs District. Bocanda is also a commune.
The town has a small regional medical center, a mayor's office, an active marketplace, a petrol station, a high school, five primary schools, a Catholic church, several Protestant churches, and a mosque. The traditional residents are of the Baoulé tribe; however, there is also a large Dyula population.
In 2014, the population of the sub-prefecture of Bocanda was 60,183.[2]
The 56 villages of the sub-prefecture of Bocanda and their population in 2014 are:[2]
This Lacs District location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Lawrence is an English and Scottish surname. It is derived from Middle English or old French given name Laurence; itself derived from Latin Laurentius. The Oxford dictionary of family names of Britain lists Laurence and McLaren as variants.[1]
Laurentius, a Latin given name which means "from Laurentium", derives from the word laurel, a Roman symbol of victory.[2]
Kenji Nagai (長井 健司, Nagai Kenji, August 27, 1957 – September 27, 2007) was a Japanese photojournalist who took many assignments to conflict zones and dangerous areas around the world.
He was shot dead in Myanmar (also known as Burma) during the Saffron Revolution. Nagai continued to take photographs as he lay wounded on the ground, later dying from gunshot injuries to the chest. He was the only foreign national killed in the protests.[1]
Kenji Nagai grew up in Imabari, Ehime, Japan, and graduated from Imabari Nishi High School. Nagai attended Tokyo Keizai University (東京経済大学), and after graduation he studied abroad in the United States for a year. After his return to Japan, Nagai held a part-time job before embarking upon his career as a freelance journalist.[2] Working as a contract photojournalist for Tokyo's AFP News,[1] Nagai was accustomed to traveling to dangerous places in the Middle East.[3] From 1997 until his death, Nagai took assignments in Afghanistan, Cambodia, the Palestinian territories, and Iraq, taking photographs that captured the essence of war.[2][4]
Nagai arrived in Myanmar two days before the government began attacking Buddhist monks protesting against the military junta[1] that has ruled the country since deposing the democratic government in a 1962 coup d'état.[5] The protests originally began when the government raised the price of fuel, but grew into mass demonstrations in the tens of thousands, with Buddhist monks leading pro-democracy marches in the streets of Yangon.[6] According to The Times, an associate of Nagai's said he was "relentless" when it came to covering a story, believing that he had to travel to "the places nobody wants to go".[7]
Nagai had been in Myanmar covering the anti-government protests since Tuesday, September 25.[8] On Thursday, September 27, Nagai was photographing the protests near the Traders Hotel, a few blocks away from the Sule Pagoda in downtown Yangon, when soldiers opened fire on demonstrators, killing Nagai and reportedly injuring another foreign journalist.[9][10]
Reports initially stated that Nagai was hit by stray bullets fired by soldiers or possibly shot from the front.[11] The "stray bullet" explanation was proposed by the government of Myanmar as an explanation for Nagai's death. However, video footage obtained by Japanese television appears to show a Burmese soldier shoving Nagai to the ground and shooting him at point-blank range.[3] A still image photographed by Adrees Latif showed the soldier standing over Nagai, who was sprawled on the ground and still clutching his camera. This photograph appeared on the front page of The New York Times on September 28, 2007. A subsequent shot showed Nagai's body sprawled in the street as the soldier walked away. Judging from the patch, the soldier responsible is believed to be from one of the Light Infantry Divisions (possibly LID 66) in charge of crowd control in Yangon at the time of protests.[citation needed] At the Japanese embassy in Myanmar, a physician established the trajectory of the fatal bullet that killed Nagai, determining that the bullet entered Nagai's chest from the lower right side and pierced his heart before exiting from his back.[3]
On October 8, new footage showing a Burmese soldier apparently confiscating a fallen Nagai's video camera was revealed on a Japanese news show.[12][13] Adrees Latif's photograph, depicting Nagai sprawled on the pavement before his death, won the Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News Photography in 2008.[14]
Reporters Without Borders condemned the killing of Nagai, noting that Nagai was carrying a camera in his hand when he was shot, identifying him as a journalist. The director of the RWB's Washington, D.C. branch, Lucie Morillon, said that Nagai was "left to die in the street".[7]
Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda bemoaned Nagai's death as "extremely unfortunate" and Chief Cabinet Secretary Nobutaka Machimura offered his prayers and condolences.[11]  Machimura said: "We strongly protest the Myanmar government and demand an investigation (into the death). We demand (Myanmar) take appropriate steps to ensure the safety of the Japanese citizens in that country".[8]  Japan's Foreign Minister Masahiko Kōmura stated that Japan holds Myanmar accountable for the death of Kenji Nagai. According to Kōmura, U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told him that the "international community cannot allow peaceful protesters to be killed and injured".[8] On September 28, Masahiko Kōmura lodged a protest over the killing of Nagai when he met with Myanmar's Foreign Minister Nyan Win at the United Nations Headquarters. In the meeting, Nyan Win apologized for Nagai's death. Yabunaka Mitoji, Deputy Minister for Japanese Foreign Affairs, left for Myanmar on September 30.[15]
Although Nyan Win officially apologized, an October 13 article locally published in the government-owned Mirror newspaper offered a different view of the events. It claimed that Nagai had entered the country using a tourist visa instead of proper journalist visa and faulted the cameraman for failing to get a permit to cover the news inside Myanmar. It emphasized that the event occurred at the time of martial law being imposed and the soldiers could not differentiate between a Burmese citizen and a Japanese because of the resemblance in Asian looks.[16]
Nagai's father, Hideo, told the media: "I don't want Myanmar authorities and the government to resort to such measures. I want them to prevent something like this from happening again".[11] According to Japan's Foreign minister Masahiko Komura, Japan is considered curbing development aid for Myanmar.[3][17][18]
"The Group Protesting the Murder of Mr. Nagai by the Army of Myanmar" was founded by Japanese journalists, intellectuals, and celebrities in order to protest Nagai's killing and petition for the return of his camera and tape. By November 2007 the group collected 20,000 signatures, primarily in Japan. On November 26, 2007, the group posted an English version of the letter on their website and started collecting signatures internationally.[19]
Sixteen years later, in 2023, Nagai's camera and footage was returned to his sister Noriko in Bangkok. Footage shows him reporting on the arrival of armed military at the protests, shortly before a soldier fatally shot him in the chest.[20]
The Burma Media Association established an award in Nagai's memory. The award aims to recognize individuals who have reported the truth about Myanmar. The first award, in 2009, was presented to Eint Khaing Oo, a Burmese female journalist.[21]
Dysomma tridens is an eel in the family Synaphobranchidae (cutthroat eels).[1] It was described by Catherine H. Robins, Eugenia Brandt Böhlke, and Charles Richard Robins in 1989.[2] It is a tropical, marine eel which is known from off Belize, in the western central Atlantic Ocean. It is known to dwell at a maximum depth of 348 metres.[1]

This Anguilliformes article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Universidad de los Andes (Spanish: Universidad de los Andes) (UANDES) is a private catholic-inspired higher learning institution that carries out non-profit education, research, and assistance activities,  and was founded in 1989 in Santiago de Chile by a group of academics and professionals.[2]
UANDES is currently[as of?] accredited by the National Accreditation Commission for a period of 5 years out of a maximum of 7 in five areas: pre- and postgraduate teaching, research, community engagement, and institutional management. [3]  Since 2019 it is a member of the Council of Chancellors.[4]
The university was founded on September 8, 1989, by Eduardo Fernández León, Matías Izquierdo Menéndez, and Eduardo Gulisasti Gana, and others.[5]
The faculty of law was the first to begin, in 1990, followed by the medical faculty and the institute of philosophy. Over the years, new majors were added on today reaching a total of 22 undergraduate majors, 10 associate degree programs, 1,700 academics, 4 doctorates, 8 postgraduate programs, 21 master's programs, 25 advanced-study programs and 27 specialties in the health field.[6]
Its 9,000 students are currently studying one of the 28 undergraduate majors it offers in the fields of humanities, engineering, and healthcare, and 11 associate degree programs. Its postgraduate programs, which include PhD, master, and medical specialty programs, have over 1,500 students enrolled. Located on its sole campus are the Clinica Universidad de los Andes, the CiiB (Center for Research and Biomedical Innovation) and the ESE Business School. The Universidad de los Andes Health Center 1, located in the district of San Bernardo in southern Santiago, was also created as a service to the local community as well as a hands-on teaching facility.
On the San Carlos de Apoquindo Campus, the university has nine buildings, including the ESE Business School, the engineering building, a library, and the central building which houses the offices of most of the support units, classrooms, a degree room, and academic staff offices. [7]
It also has two clinical halls of its own, one of them is a health center located in San Bernardo[8] and Clinica Universidad de los Andes, which is integrated onto the university campus.[9]
Universidad de los Andes offers 29 undergraduate degrees leading to professional degrees. It also dictates 11 associate degree programs, which can be continued here or at other higher learning institutions.[10]
Universidad de los Andes was the first private Chilean university not belonging to the Council of Chancellors to teach medicine.[11]
Currently,[when?] the university has nine faculties, eleven schools and three other independently governed academic units:
The university has a significant number[vague] of international agreements with universities around the world and houses different research centers and institutes.
List of students of Universidad de los Andes (Chile)
In 2012, the first election for a student gederation was held, resulting in the election of the "construye" (build) list led by civil engineering student Nicolás Peñafiel. Currently,[as of?] the student federation is represented by Ignacio Cruz.[12]
Some past student federation presidents have been:
33°24′17″S 70°30′26″W﻿ / ﻿33.4046°S 70.5072°W﻿ / -33.4046; -70.5072
Mashtan (Persian: مشتان, also Romanized as Mashtān; also known as Mashtūn)[1] is a village in the Central District of Kazerun County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2016 census, its population was 3,093, in 865 families.[2]
This Kazerun County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Wikipedia does not have an article on "amidst", but its sister project Wiktionary does:
Read the Wiktionary entry "amidst"
You can also:
Margaret Mason Taylor Fox (26 July 1857[1] – 1942[2]) was an American painter, illustrator, and etcher.
Born in Philadelphia, Fox was a student of Peter Moran and Thomas Pollock Anshutz.[3] She taught for a time in the public schools of New Haven, Connecticut, and in 1905 was serving as treasurer of the Teachers' Art Club of New Haven.[4] She is known best as a book illustrator, but she exhibited other work as well, presenting eight etchings at the Union League Club's exhibit "Work of Women Etchers in America" in 1888. Little else is recorded of her career, but she is known to have been in the Washington, D.C. area in 1895; references place her there again between 1926 and 1941. Seven etchings by Fox, including The Burns Cottage, Washington, D.C. are owned by the National Museum of American History.[3] Twelve etchings, including Near Darby Road, Shark River, N.J., eight impressions of Berry Gatherers and two of Pasture Land, are in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts; all date to between 1884 and 1887.[5][6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16]

This article about a painter from the United States born in the 1850s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 1925 Nebraska Wesleyan Coyotes football team was an American football team that represented Nebraska Wesleyan University as a member of the North Central Conference (NCC) during the 1925 college football season. In its first season under head coach Clarence L. Dow, the team compiled a 6–0–2 record (3–0–1 against NCC opponents), shut out seven of eight opponents, did not allow its goal line to be crossed, and outscored all opponents by a total of 76 to 3.[1] The team played its home games at Johnson Field in Lincoln, Nebraska.
Fullback Oscar Wiberg was the team captain.[2] Wiberg and tackle Huyck were selected as first-team players on the 1925 All-North Central Conference football team.[3]
Jan van Aken (1614 – 25 March 1661 (buried)[1]) was a Dutch Golden Age painter and engraver.
Van Aken was born and died in Amsterdam, but has been frequently confused with the celebrated German painter Johann van Achen of Cologne. Not much is known of his paintings but Bartsch enumerates twenty-one of his etchings, which are touched in the manner of Herman Saftleven. They are very slight but display great mastery.
Houbraken describes an etching by him from his own design, which he says is very scarce. He terms it the Travellers On Horseback. It is marked  "J.V Aken, inv. et fec.". Among those mentioned are six horses after Pieter van Laer[2] or Bamboccio and six views of the Rhine after Saftleven. 
He was also influenced by Philips Wouwerman.[3]
Penn & Teller Tell a Lie is a six-part series starring Penn Jillette and Teller. Each episode contains six or seven stories,[2] including a demonstration performed by the hosts during the recording of the show as the last story.  One of the stories is falsified, and the rest are true. During each broadcast, viewers can guess which story is the lie, voting on Discovery's website, with the answer and voting results revealed at the end of the episode.
The series aired on the Discovery Channel beginning Wednesday, October 5, 2011.[3][4] 
The show is also broadcast in the UK on Channel Quest which premiered on the 2nd of May 2012.
On April 14, 2011, Penn and Teller announced that their previous show, Penn & Teller: Bullshit!, had ended and that a new show, Penn & Teller: Secrets of the Universe, would begin on the Discovery Channel.[5] The show was later renamed Penn & Teller Tell a Lie.[6]
Recording of the first episode began on June 1, 2011.[7] The show started airing Wednesday, October 5, 2011.[4]
Reviews of the show have been mostly positive, although many reviewers compare the show to the Discovery Channel's other skepticism-themed show, MythBusters. Matt Blum of Wired Magazine wrote:
Skeptics, rejoice! MythBusters no longer is the only show that aims to teach its viewers to question their perceptions of reality before deciding what to believe. [...] It’s a very good show, which MythBusters fans will almost certainly enjoy and which non-MythBusters fans (if there are any who read this blog) should give a try.[8]Brian Lowry of Variety wrote that the show was "A perfect companion for Mythbusters" and "a clever way for Discovery to ventilate its whimsical side without pandering".[9]   Kevin McFarland of The A.V. Club called the show a mix of the icebreaker game "Two Truths And A Lie" mixed with a "Mythbusters-type reality show". He went on to say that the show was "sincerely watchable", but noted that "there are still kinks to be worked out".[10]
Olivia Grüner (born 4 March 1969) is a former German mountain runner who won 1985 World Mountain Running Championships.[1]


This biographical article relating to German athletics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
As manager
Paul Leo Molitor (born August 22, 1956), nicknamed "Molly" and "the Ignitor", is an American former professional baseball player and manager. During his 21-year playing career in Major League Baseball (MLB), he played for the Milwaukee Brewers (1978–1992), Toronto Blue Jays (1993–1995), and Minnesota Twins (1996–1998). He was known for his exceptional hitting and speed. He made seven All-Star Game appearances, and was the World Series Most Valuable Player in 1993. Molitor currently ranks tenth on the all-time MLB career hits list with 3,319. He is one of only five players in history with 3,000+ hits, a lifetime .300+ batting average, and 500+ career stolen bases.
Molitor grew up in Minnesota and attended the University of Minnesota before beginning his MLB career. After his retirement as a player, he served as a coach for the Seattle Mariners and the Twins. In 2004, he was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in his first year of eligibility, becoming one of the first players enshrined after spending a significant portion of his career as a designated hitter. He was a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. On November 3, 2014, Molitor was announced as the 13th manager of the Twins.[1][2]  He managed the team for four seasons and was fired in October 2018.
Molitor was born in Saint Paul, Minnesota.  After graduating from Cretin High School,[3] he was selected in the 28th round of the 1974 MLB draft as a pitcher by the St. Louis Cardinals. He opted instead to attend college at the University of Minnesota, where he was a three-year starter for the Minnesota Golden Gophers. Molitor earned All-American honors as a shortstop for his sophomore year. Between his sophomore and junior seasons, Molitor suffered a broken jaw.[4] With his jaw wired shut for eight weeks, Molitor lost 40 pounds (18 kg).[5]
After his junior year in college, the Milwaukee Brewers selected Molitor in the first round, with the third overall selection, in the 1977 Major League Baseball draft. He signed with the Brewers and began his professional career with the Class A Burlington Bees of the Midwest League.[6] In 64 games with Burlington, Molitor hit for a .346 batting average, 8 home runs, 50 runs batted in (RBI) and 14 stolen bases.[7]
Molitor began as a shortstop, then moved to second base when Robin Yount returned from a brief injury. He made his MLB debut in 1978, playing in 125 games and hitting .273 with six home runs, 45 RBIs and 30 stolen bases.[8] In 1981, he spent time at center field and right field to avoid the injuries associated with infield play.[9] Molitor was moved to third base before the 1982 season. Molitor was part of a young Milwaukee Brewers team that lost the 1982 World Series in seven games to the St. Louis Cardinals. Molitor batted .355 during the series. In Game 1, he had five hits, a World Series record. During the 1982 season, he hit .302 and led the American League (AL) with 136 runs scored. On May 12, he hit three home runs against the Royals in a 9-7 loss.
Molitor struggled with injuries for much of his early career, being placed on the disabled list six times between 1980 and 1986. In 1984, Molitor struggled with elbow problems, played in only 13 games and ultimately underwent Tommy John surgery in an attempt to salvage his career.[5] He played in 140 games in 1985, hitting .297 with 10 home runs and 48 RBIs. He followed that with a .281 average, 9 home runs and 55 RBI in 1986.[8] That year he suffered a hamstring injury, returned for a few days, then reinjured it.[10] He played in 105 games that season.[8]
Molitor attracted national media attention in 1987 during his 39-game hitting streak. Near the end of the streak, columnist Mike Downey wrote that "the amazing thing about Paul Molitor's recent bat-o-rama is not that he has hit in 33 straight games but that he has played in 33 straight games."[10] The streak ended with Molitor in the on-deck circle when Rick Manning got a game-ending hit to beat the Cleveland Indians on August 26, 1987. Fans booed Manning for driving in the winning run and thus depriving Molitor of one last chance to reach 40 games. The streak stands as the fifth-longest in modern-day baseball history, and remains the longest since Pete Rose's 44-game hit streak in 1978.[11]
Although Molitor wanted to remain with Milwaukee when he became a free agent after the 1992 season, the franchise offered him a one-year contract with a $900,000 pay cut (to $2.5 million), while the Toronto Blue Jays offered a three-year, $13 million deal (equivalent to $26.34 million in 2022), leading to his signing with the Blue Jays. Agent Ron Simon said, "I was also talking with Milwaukee, but it became clear to us that Milwaukee didn't have the same kind of interest in signing Molitor, perhaps because of their financial situation."[12]
Molitor quickly became an offensive juggernaut. In 1993, Molitor led the AL in plate appearances (725) and hits (211)[8] and hit .332 with 22 home runs and 111 RBI.[8] Returning to the playoffs for the first time since 1982,[13] he was a key part of the Blue Jays' second World Championship. Molitor hit 2 doubles, 2 triples, and 2 home runs in the Series, earning the World Series MVP Award and tied a World Series record by batting .500 (12-for-24) in the six-game series. In addition, after playing as a DH all season, Molitor played Game 3 of the World Series at first base and Games 4 and 5 at third base in the games played at Philadelphia.
In 1994, a strike-shortened season, Molitor hit .341 and led the AL in games played (115) and singles (107). He also stole 20 bases that season without ever being caught, one short of Kevin McReynolds' 1988 major league record of 21.[14] Molitor's average dropped to .270 in 1995, his lowest mark in more than ten years.[8]
He left the Blue Jays after the 1995 season, and joined his hometown Minnesota Twins for the final three seasons of his career, where he acquired his 3,000th hit. He was the first player to reach the 3,000 hits plateau with a triple. Molitor was relishing the opportunity to play with Twins superstar Kirby Puckett, but Puckett developed career-ending glaucoma during spring training in 1996 and never played again. In 1996, Molitor became the second 40-year-old, after Hall of Famer Sam Rice, to have a 200-hit season, leading the league with 225, while also leading the league in singles with 167. Molitor also remains the last MLB player to drive in 100 or more runs in a season while hitting fewer than 10 home runs (9 HR, 113 RBIs).[15]
Molitor hit .305 in 1997, his twelfth season to finish with a batting average higher than .300. In 1998, he hit .281 with 4 home runs, 69 RBI and 9 stolen bases. Other than his very brief 1984 season, the 1998 season was the first in Molitor's career in which he did not reach double-digit stolen base totals.[8] He retired in December, saying, "My heart tells me I've done what I can do on the field and in this game", Molitor said. "I'm happy to leave it playing my last season in a Twins uniform... Now I'm going to redirect my efforts to find out what else the future holds."[16]
After retiring as a player, Molitor remained with the Twins as a bench coach for three seasons. He was considered a leading candidate to manage the team when Tom Kelly retired after 2001, but he declined in part because the Twins were still being targeted for potential contraction. Molitor was a hitting coach with the Mariners in 2004. He then spent the 2005 to 2013 seasons in the Twins organization as a minor league baserunning and fielding instructor. Molitor joined the Twins coaching staff in 2014 to oversee baserunning, bunting, infield instruction, and positioning.[17]
The Twins hired Molitor to fill their manager vacancy for the 2015 season, and introduced him in a press conference on November 4, 2014.[18]
At the end of the 2017 season, the Twins announced that Molitor would receive a three-year contract extension through 2020. Molitor was rewarded for his efforts in leading the Twins back to the postseason after losing 103 games the season prior, the first team in history to achieve this feat, by being named American League Manager of the Year in November 2017. He became only the second person to be elected to the Hall of Fame as a player and win the Manager of the Year Award behind Frank Robinson, who was named AL Manager of the Year in 1989 while managing the Baltimore Orioles.[19]
On October 2, 2018, the Twins fired Molitor as manager, but expressed that they had interest in having him continue to maintain a role with the team in some capacity. He finished with a record of 305 wins and 343 losses in 648 games.[20] Molitor later rejoined the Twins as a special assistant, with roving instructor duties for the team's minor league affiliates.[21]
Molitor's lifetime statistics include 2,683 games played, 1,782 runs scored, 3,319 hits, 605 doubles, 114 triples, 234 home runs, 1,307 runs batted in, 1,094 walks, a .306 batting average, and 504 stolen bases. His 3,319 hits rank him ninth all-time. In addition, he batted .368 in five postseason series, and was an all-star seven times. Molitor recorded these statistics while missing nearly 500 games due to various injuries throughout his career. In 1999, Molitor ranked No. 99 on The Sporting News' list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players, and he was nominated as a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. Molitor was elected to the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame in 1999.
On June 11, 1999, the Brewers retired Molitor's uniform number 4. During the ceremony at Milwaukee County Stadium, Molitor announced that if he went into the Hall of Fame, he would do so as a Brewer. On January 6, 2004, he was elected to the Hall in his first year of eligibility, with 85.2% of the votes. True to his word, he joined Robin Yount as the only Hall of Famers to be depicted on their plaques with Brewers caps. At the time of his induction, Molitor was the hitting coach for the Seattle Mariners.[22]
Molitor is one of five players in major league history with at least 3,000 hits, a .300 lifetime batting average, and 500 stolen bases. The other four are Ty Cobb, Honus Wagner, Eddie Collins and Ichiro Suzuki. Only Ichiro and Molitor played beyond 1930. Molitor is the only player ever to accomplish those feats and hit at least 200 home runs. Molitor is also the first player in World Series history to have at least two home runs, two doubles, and two triples in one series (1993). He is a member of an exclusive club, hitting .300 or better in full seasons across three decades (1970s, 80s, and 90s). He hit better than .300 a dozen times in his career. Including Game 1 of the 1982 World Series, he recorded eight 5-hit games and four 200+ hit seasons in his 21 year major league career.
As of 2021, Molitor is the last Major League player to execute the rare feat of stealing home plate at least ten times over the course of a career.[23]
During the early years of his career, Molitor began using cocaine and marijuana. During the trial of a drug dealer in 1984, Molitor admitted that he had used drugs.[24] Many years later, he said, "There are things you're not so proud of — failures, mistakes, dabbling in drugs, a young ballplayer in the party scene. Part of it was peer pressure. I was young and single, and hung around with the wrong people. ... You learn from it. You find a positive in it. It makes you appreciate the things that are good."[25] He claims to have stopped using drugs in 1981, and has since visited schools to lecture about the dangers of drug use.[22]
Molitor married Linda Kaplan in 1981, and before their 2003 divorce it was revealed he had fathered a son in an extramarital affair with Joanna Andreou and was paying child support.[26] During his legal separation from Linda, he fathered another child with the woman who would become his second wife, Destini; they had a third child together and later divorced.[26]
During his Hall of Fame induction speech, Molitor mentioned his difficult family relationships; the divorce from Linda caused such hard feelings that his ex-wife[ambiguous] and daughter almost did not attend his induction ceremony.[27][26]
Molitor's nephew is professional disc golfer Cale Leiviska.[28]
Italics denotes active player
Forrest Smith
Democratic
Phil M. Donnelly
Democratic
The 1952 Missouri gubernatorial election was held on November 4, 1952 and resulted in a victory for the Democratic nominee, former Governor Phil M. Donnelly, over the Republican candidate, former Speaker of the Missouri House of Representatives Howard Elliott,[1] and candidates representing the Progressive, Socialist and Socialist Labor parties. Donnelly defeated representative Phil J. Welch for his party's nomination.

This Missouri elections-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Mausoleum is a mausoleum and museum that exhibits artifacts related to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and other political figures in Kenya's independence process. The museum also displays artifacts related to the Luo culture.
The mausoleum was opened in 1995 by Olusegun Obasanjo, former president of Nigeria.[1] In early 2012, Joachim Ndalo presented a painting of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni at the mausoleum.[2] In 2018, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta visited the mausoleum.[3] In 2019, the state-owned National Museums of Kenya Corporation began a series of rehabilitations for the mausoleum at a cost of KSh. 8 million.[4]
The mausoleum features photographs of Odinga's political career, and the mausoleum contains Odinga's personal items such as walking sticks.[5] The mausoleum contains cultural artifacts such as weapons, spears, shields and bows of the Luo people. Some of these artifacts were used by Jaramogi when he was a Ker, a community leader of the Luo communities.[6] Part of the lion sculptures in the mausoleum were sculpted by Oshoto Ondula.[7] The museum contains photographs of African leaders such as Nelson Mandela, Kwame Nkrumah and Haile Sellasie. The mausoleum also contains portraits of Josiah Mwangi Kariuki, Pio Gama Pinto and Dedan Kimathi, as well as photographs of all the presidents and prime ministers of Kenya since 1963. The museum also displays a Kanu shield with the words "Nyayo".[1]
Caught in a Flue is a 1914 short one-reel comedy film starring Fatty Arbuckle.[1] It was directed by Morgan Wallace[2] and produced by Mack Sennett. The film's alternative title was The Burglar Scare.[3]
After Bertie is kicked out of the house he tries to regain entry at the same time as a burglar, and the two get caught in the chimney together.[3]

This 1910s short comedy film–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Anne Davies is a former Washington correspondent for Australian newspapers The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald.
She is an alumna of SCEGGS Darlinghurst, an inner-city school for girls in Sydney, Australia.[citation needed]
Davies has previously been the state political editor and urban affairs editor for The Sydney Morning Herald and also spent 10 years covering U.S. federal politics. She currently writes an opinion column, "National Times," for The Sydney Morning Herald.[1]
In 2002, she won a Gold Walkley, an investigative journalism award, with Kate McClymont for coverage of a rugby league salary cap scandal associated with the Canterbury Bulldogs.[2] She is a member of the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance union in Australia.
She was a panelist in May 2010 at the Sydney Writers Festival.[3]
Together with Helen Trinca, Davies co-authored the book Waterfront: The Battle That Changed Australia, (Doubleday/Transworld, 2000) about the 1998 stand-off between Patrick Stevedores and the Maritime Union of Australia.[4]
In 2014, Davies wrote an article which incorrectly identified Melinda Pedavoli as a teacher who had resigned following allegations of sexual misconduct.[5] Davies' conduct was found to be 'improper, unjustifiable or lacking in bona fides'.[6]
The Myongji University Korean Language Institute (Korean: 한국어학당; Hanja: 韓國語學堂) is an institute in Seoul, South Korea which offers Korean as a foreign language courses. It was established in 2008 and has been providing language education for South Korean government scholarship students. Currently there are 500 students from over 19 different countries.[citation needed]
The academic year consists of 4 semesters (Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter) offered in 5 levels. There are classes 5 days a week (Monday to Friday), 4 hours a day.
37°34′51″N 126°55′26″E﻿ / ﻿37.58083°N 126.92389°E﻿ / 37.58083; 126.92389
During the 1995–96 English football season, Watford F.C. competed in the Football League First Division.
In Glenn Roeder's third season as manager, Watford struggled and Roeder was sacked in February with the club bottom of the table.[1] Graham Taylor returned to Watford as Director of Football in February 1996, with former player Kenny Jackett as head coach, but was unable to stop the club from sliding into Division Two.

Watford's score comes first
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
The Pink Spiders are an American rock band, formed in Nashville, Tennessee in 2003.[1]  The band consists of Matt Friction (lead vocals, guitar), JoCo (bass), Joey B-Side (drums), and Young James (guitar).
Matt Friction and original drummer Bob Ferrari recruited Jon Decious (bass) and released their first EP, The Pink Spiders Are Taking Over!, in 2004.  The group toured around the Nashville area and an independent label released their debut album, Hot Pink in 2005.[2]
The Pink Spiders performed at The Viper Room in West Hollywood on March 2, 2005, after which they were signed by Geffen Records.  Their major-label debut, Teenage Graffiti was produced by Ric Ocasek and released in 2006.  Promotion and the single "Little Razorblade" landed Teenage Graffiti on the Billboard 200.[3]  The group also made several television appearances and played at the Vans Warped Tour.
The relationship between the group and Geffen faltered during the making of their album, Sweat It Out and disagreements led Decious and Ferrari to leave the band shortly after the album's release.  Sweat It Out was released through Adrenaline Music and Friction's Mean Buzz Records in September 2008.  The Pink Spiders went on hiatus in 2009 and all three members pursued other musical projects.[4]
Friction, Decious, and Ferrari eventually reunited and performed at The Viper Room in June 2010; Friction officially announced their return.[4]  The group released a two-track single and completed the "2 Legit 2 Quit Tour" in 2011. In August 2016, the band performed a sold-out show at the Mercy Lounge in Nashville, TN to celebrate the ten year anniversary of their Geffen Records release "Teenage Graffiti". A fourth full-length LP "Mutations" was released on July 31, 2018, followed by several US headlining tours.
In 2003, Matthew Bell (known as "Matt Friction") led the Nashville quartet, Silent Friction, and performed around the Nashville area.  He occasionally filled in on guitar for Oliver's Army, where Robert William Fort V (known as "Bob Ferrari") played drums.[5]
Friction and Ferrari decided to make music together.  They recruited Jon Decious on bass and a second guitarist, Jamie Mechan.  Mechan was eventually dismissed from the group.  The trio contemplated several names, including: "The Pink Tigers" and "The Pink Diablos".  They settled on "The Pink Spiders".[6]
The Pink Spiders recorded their first EP three weeks later.  According to Ferrari, the record can be described as "bubblegum" music.  He said: "We didn't try to sound like anyone.  We just stole from everyone.  That's what good artists do in my opinion."  The Pink Spiders Are Taking Over! (2004) was influenced by The Ramones, The Dead Boys, Buddy Holly, and the Bay City Rollers.  The band's live debut consisted of a sold-out show in Nashville.[6]
Friction was a booking agent for The Muse and used that knowledge to find shows for the band.  Meanwhile, Ferrari worked as a substitute teacher and the group donated plasma to fund their tours.  The Pink Spiders also smoked a lot, a habit evident in promotional snapshots of the band.  The group eventually befriended the band Sadaharu.  It was through them that The Pink Spiders found a record label to release their debut studio album.[6]
The Pennsylvania-based and independent label, CI Records, released Hot Pink on January 4, 2005.  The album has the trademarks of 1960s teen pop; it features the pop of a needle, crackles, and even hisses in between tracks.  Influences from artists such as Elvis Costello, Nick Lowe, and Cheap Trick were apparent in Friction's songwriting.  A vinyl version of the record was also released by Nashville's Spat! Records.
The band toured nonstop, battling the chaos offered by life on the road; their trailer caught on fire in Buffalo and the band slept in the New York City Subway and the PATH when they had nowhere to sleep.
An old friend of Friction, Jason Hollis, lived in Los Angeles and told the group about Dan Catullo, a producer.  Catullo arranged a private show for the band at West Hollywood's The Viper Room, where they would perform for numerous major labels.  The group asked their friend, Dave Paulson (frontman of Nashville-based The Privates), to play guitar with them at the show and he accepted.  The four slept over at a living unit located above Catullo's recording studio.[6]
Their performance on March 2, 2005, at The Viper Room was a success.  "After the set, the curtains closed and Jordan Schur ran onstage.  He was immediately stopped by security but just barreled through them," said Friction of the experience.  Ferrari said he opened his arms, exclaiming, "I gotta have this band!!!"  Schur was the CEO of Geffen Records.[6]
Several weeks following the show,  The Pink Spiders chose Geffen among 11 major-label offers.  Walking into the offices of the recording company, the band was greeted by a pizza party.  The contract was signed and according to Decious, the label took them to Six Flags.  The three bandmates moved to Hollywood: Friction and Decious rented an apartment on Sunset Boulevard and Ferrari lodged at the Gershwin Hollywood Hotel.[6]
Geffen hired Ric Ocasek, frontman of The Cars, to produce the group's major label debut.  The Pink Spiders traveled to New York to commence recording at Electric Lady Studios. The album was originally intended to be released in April 2006, but the date was pushed to August.[6]
The first single off the album was "Little Razorblade"; its music video was directed by Joseph Kahn. The video debuted on MTV's Total Request Live in April 2006 and peaked at number 12.  The song received heavy rotation on the video network, Fuse, and reached the top spot on the Los Angeles-based radio station, KROQ.  It was featured on the reality television series The Hills and was played in the clothing store Hollister Co. That year, The Pink Spiders performed on the Vans Warped Tour.
The Pink Spiders toured with many popular bands such as Thirty Seconds to Mars, Good Charlotte, Yellowcard, Meg & Dia, All Time Low, Sugarcult, Damone, Kill Hannah, and Fall Out Boy in support of this album.  The group was also listed as one of the "100 bands you need to know in 2006" by Alternative Press.
Teenage Graffiti was released on August 1, 2006, and peaked at number 84 on the Billboard 200.[7]  The album was praised by critics for its power-pop sound and catchy melodies.
The Pink Spiders' third album was announced in late 2007 and was meant to be released in Spring 2008.  Geffen hired Brendan O'Brien as the producer — his experience included work for musicians such as Stone Temple Pilots, Pearl Jam, and Bruce Springsteen.  Friction wrote 25 songs for the album, of which half were approved for release.[6]
The band bought a school bus which they intended to use for touring.  On March 13, 2008, somewhere between Nashville and Atlanta, the bus burned to the ground along with their possessions.  The group lost "clothes, laptops, passports, id's, ipods, cameras, receipts, cash, song lyrics, everything."  They welcomed any donations.  They missed shows at Atlanta and New Orleans, but announced that they would finish the rest of the tour.[8]
The band encountered disagreements over money and direction leading Decious and Ferrari to announce they would no longer be members of The Pink Spiders.  The two played a last show on June 18, 2008, in Charlotte, North Carolina.  They formed the country-rock group, Dixie Whiskey, in the following months.[6]
Friction recruited replacements for Decious and Ferrari — Raf Cevallos on guitar, Joe Reilly on drums, and Ben Young on bass.  The new line-up made its live debut at Cave 9 in Birmingham, Alabama several days later.[6]
The new Pink Spiders completed the Tapped Kegs, Spread Legs, & Fertilized Eggs tour.  The tour-only exclusive, Subterranean EP, contained unreleased versions of "Teenage Graffiti" and "Knock Knock", "Gimme Chemicals" and "Sleeping On the Floor" from Sweat It Out, as well as the b-sides "Typical Danger" and "We Do It All The Time".
That year, The Pink Spiders officially dissolved their contract with Geffen.  After much deliberation, Sweat It Out was finally released on September 23, 2008, by Friction's own independent record label, Mean Buzz Records.
In 2009, Friction announced an extended hiatus.  He embarked on a variety of side projects, including Matt Friction & the Cheap Shots and The Dozen Dimes.
In 2010, the group accepted an offer to play at the bar mitzvah of a fan who lived in Los Angeles.  On June 20 they held a concert at The Viper Room and Friction announced their return.  "We aren't at a place where it's [about] money," said the lead singer in an interview with the Nashville Scene.  He also announced that they had resolved their differences, but that Decious would be pursuing other interests — Brandon Jazz assumed bassist duties.[4]
The Pink Spiders released "Cherry Chapstick b/w Sad Style", a two-track single, on March 21, 2011.  That spring they completed the "2 Legit 2 Quit Tour".
In 2011, The Pink Spiders appeared in the Hal Leonard music educational DVD, Learn To Rock Drums With Jason Hartless And Friends, performing "Gimme Chemicals" live in Detroit with guest drummer Jason Hartless.
On August 6, 2016, the original lineup of Friction, Ferrari, and Decious reunited for a concert at the Mercy Lounge in Nashville to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the release of Teenage Graffiti. They were joined by Dave Paulson on guitar and Raf Cevallos on keyboards. On August 8, the band announced plans to release a new album, Mutations, in the summer of 2018.[9]
On May 30, 2017, The Pink Spiders released two new singles, "Black Dagger" and "Easier Than Ever" for pre-sale exclusively on vinyl via their website. On June 13, 2017, the band uploaded a new lyric video for "Easier Than Ever" on their YouTube account, announcing that an official music video for the song would be coming soon.
In September 2017, The Pink Spiders announced a short 10 city Midwest/Northeast tour, titled the "Black Dagger Tour" starting December 13 and ending December 22, 2017. The tour was a success and ultimately helped the band immensely when they announced a Kickstarter campaign to fund Mutations in January 2018. The campaign exceeded its goal by over 30%.
Once the Kickstarter campaign ended, the band began work at several studios in Nashville working on 11 songs slated to go on the upcoming LP, Mutations, released July 31, 2018. Throughout their time in the studio, the band has been posting teaser photos of the recording process across their social media pages from time to time.
Between 2006 and 2008, The Pink Spiders appeared on MTV's Total Request Live, Discover and Download, and You Hear It First; as well as Fuse's Daily Download, Tattoo Stories, and Steven's Untitled Rock Show.
In May 2008, the Pink Spiders played for a Sweet 16 featured in Episode 6 of the Fourth Season of Hell's Kitchen, Performing "Seventeen Candles".
Reserection is an extended play (EP) by English alternative dance band Saint Etienne and French singer Étienne Daho, under the collective name St. Etienne Daho. It was released on 29 September 1995 by Virgin Records.
The title is a portmanteau of the words resurrection and erection, with the former referring to rumours at the time that Daho was HIV-positive, or even that he had already died.[1] The opening track, "Reserection", puts the matter to rest as Daho states that he will rise from his "cendres fiction" ("fictitious ashes") "encore et encore" ("again and again").[2]
The only English song on the EP, "Accident", is a reworked version of Daho's 1984 French-language single "Week-end à Rome", with original English lyrics. Daho's speech from "Reserection" is also reprised within the song. "Jungle Pulse", "X Amours", and "Le Baiser français" are French-language reworkings of Saint Etienne's "Filthy", "Paper", and "Suburban Autumn Lieutenant", respectively.
Originally, the EP's sole single was "Jungle Pulse", but Eurodance producer Steve Rodway subsequently produced a remix of "Accident" that became "He's on the Phone", released as the single from Saint Etienne's first greatest hits compilation, Too Young to Die: Singles 1990–1995.
The band later worked with Daho on the single "Le Premier Jour", from his greatest hits compilation Singles.
Communitybuilders is a £70 million programme in the United Kingdom that aims to strengthen the resilience of multi-purpose, inclusive community-led organisations that operate at the neighbourhood level (sometimes referred to as community anchors).
Government responsibility for Communitybuilders lies jointly with the Department for Communities and Local Government and the Office of the Third Sector.[1]
In June 2009, a consortium, led by the Adventure Capital Fund (ACF) and including Futurebuilders England and the Community Alliance (Development Trusts Association, BASSAC and Community Matters) was appointed to deliver the programme.[2]
Communitybuilders takes forward a commitment within the Communities in Control: Real People, Real Power white paper[3] to build more cohesive, empowered and active communities.[4]
The aim of the Communitybuilders programme is to help community anchor organisations work towards long-term financial stability so they can meet the needs of their communities for generations to come. Communitybuilders provides a mix of loans, grants and non-financial support at different stages of the project cycle, supporting both existing organisations and newly formed organisations
Samsi Sastrawidagda (13 March 1894 – 1963) was an Indonesian politician who was the first Minister of Finance of Indonesia, serving for just under one month in September 1945. He was also one of the founders of the Indonesian National Party.
He was born in Surakarta on 13 March 1894. He was a graduate of a Hollandsch-Inlandsche School and went to the Netherlands in 1913 with a scholarship from Budi Utomo, graduating from a teachers' training school. He continued his studies at the Rotterdam Trade School, graduating with his dissertation De Ontwikkeling v.d handels politik van Japan (The Development of the Trade Politics of Japan). In the Netherlands, he was recruited to teach Javanese and Malay.[1][2] He also travelled to Denmark in 1925 with Mohammad Hatta to study cooperative business there.[3]
After returning to Indonesia, Samsi was one of the founders of the Indonesian National Party (PNI) on 4 July 1927, along with Sukarno, Sartono, and Iskaq Tjokrohadisurjo among others. He was appointed as party commissioner.[4] During this period, Samsi worked in Bandung, where he leased the veranda of Sukarno's home for use as his accountant's office.[5] Later, he moved to Surabaya after the arrest of many nationalists and the disbandment of PNI, and there he joined Partindo.[6][7]
Prior to the Japanese invasion of Indonesia in 1942, Samsi was considered by the Japanese as a potential fifth columnist which would aid the invasion, though such efforts ended up unnecessary.[8]: 2  During the occupation, he was a member of the Japanese-established Central Advisory Council and labor organization Pusat Tenaga Rakyat [id], in addition to being an adviser to the Finance Department of the occupation government.[9] He was also appointed as a member of the Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence (BPUPK).[10][11]
Following the proclamation of Indonesian independence, Samsi was appointed as the Finance Minister in the first Indonesian cabinet. During his brief tenure, Samsi attempted to raise funds for the new government by accessing leftover funds from the previous Dutch East Indies government seized by the Japanese following the invasion. One such source was a bank in Surabaya, and obtaining it was made possible due to Samsi's close connections with Japanese military officers. A "robbery" was arranged in order to hide the Japanese officers' involvement. The act raised money for both the central republican government and for the local militia units in Surabaya. He resigned due to health reasons on 26 September 1945 and was replaced by Alexander Andries Maramis. Samsi served in the ministerial post from 2 to 26 September 1945.[12][13]
He died in 1963.[14]
Camphora officinarum is a species of evergreen tree that is commonly known under the names camphor tree, camphorwood or camphor laurel.[1][2]
Camphora officinarum is native to China south of the Yangtze River, Taiwan, southern Japan, Korea, India, and Vietnam, and has been introduced to many other countries.[3] It grows up to 20–30 m (66–98 ft) tall.[3] In Japan, where the tree is called kusunoki, five camphor trees are known with a trunk circumference above 20 m (66 ft), with the largest individual, Kamō no Ōkusu (蒲生の大楠, "Great camphor of Kamō"), reaching 24.22 m.[4]
The leaves have a glossy, waxy appearance and smell of camphor when crushed. In spring, it produces bright green foliage with masses of small white flowers. It produces clusters of black, berry-like fruit around 1 cm (0.39 in) in diameter. Its pale bark is very rough and fissured vertically.
Certain trees in Japan are considered sacred. An example of the importance of a sacred tree is the 700-year old camphor growing in the middle of Kayashima Station. Locals protested against moving the tree when the railway station had to be expanded, so the station was built around it.[5]
C. camphora is cultivated for camphor and timber production. The production and shipment of camphor, in a solid, waxy form, was a major industry in Taiwan prior to and during the Japanese colonial era (1895–1945). It was used medicinally and was also an important ingredient in the production of smokeless gunpowder and celluloid. Primitive stills were set up in the mountainous areas in which the tree is usually found. The wood was chipped; these chips were steamed in a retort, allowing the camphor to crystallize on the inside of a crystallization box after the vapour had passed through a cooling chamber. It was then scraped off and packed out to government-run factories for processing and sale. Camphor was one of the most lucrative of several important government monopolies under the Japanese.
The wood has an insect-repellent quality.[6]
Camphor is a white crystalline substance, obtained from the tree C. camphora. Camphor has been used for many centuries as a culinary spice, a component of incense, and as a medicine. It is also an insect repellent and a flea-killing substance.
The species contains volatile chemical compounds in all plant parts, and the wood and leaves are steam distilled for the essential oils. Camphor laurel has six different chemical variants called chemotypes, which are camphor, linalool, 1,8-cineole, nerolidol, safrole, and borneol. In China, field workers avoid mixing chemotypes when harvesting by their odour.[7][8] The cineole fraction of camphor laurel is used in China to manufacture fake "eucalyptus oil".[9]
The chemical variants (or chemotypes) seem dependent upon the country of origin of the tree. e.g., C. camphora grown in Taiwan and Japan is normally very high in linalool, often between 80 and 85%. In India and Sri Lanka, the high camphor variety/chemotype remains dominant. C. camphora grown in Madagascar, though, is high in 1,8-cineole (averaging between 40 and 50%). The essential oil from the Madagascar trees is commercially known as ravintsara.[10]
Camphor laurel was introduced to Australia in 1822 as an ornamental tree for use in gardens and public parks. It has become a noxious weed  throughout Queensland and central to northern New South Wales, where it is suited to the wet, subtropical climate. The camphor content of the leaf litter helps prevent other plants from germinating successfully, helping to ensure the camphor's success against any potentially competing vegetation,[citation needed] and the seeds are attractive to birds and pass intact through the digestive system, ensuring rapid distribution. Camphor laurel invades rainforests and pastures, and also competes against eucalyptus trees, certain species of which are the sole food source of koalas. In its favour, however, younger camphor laurel trees can quickly develop hollows, which can be utilised by wildlife, whereas natives can take hundreds of years to develop hollows.[11]
Introduced to the contiguous United States around 1875, C. camphora has become naturalized in portions of Alabama, California, Florida, Virginia, Georgia, Hawaii, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Texas, and South Carolina.[12]  It has been declared a category I invasive species in Florida.[13]
In Australia, the larval stages of two native butterflies, the purple brown-eye and common red-eye feed on camphor despite it being an introduced plant.[14]
VMRO – People's Party (Macedonian: ВMPO–Народна Партија, VMRO–Narodna Partija), fully the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization – People's Party (Macedonian: Внатрешна македонска револуционерна организација – Народна Партија), is a national-conservative[1] political party in North Macedonia, formed by the followers of the former Prime Minister Ljubčo Georgievski who split from the VMRO–DPMNE. The VMRO–NP was founded in Skopje on 4 July 2004. Vesna Janevska was elected as the party's first chairwoman.
The VMRO–NP was founded as an alternative to VMRO-DPMNE, as part of a disagreement with many of the policies of Ljubčo Georgievski's successor, Nikola Gruevski. The VMRO–NP's statute allowed dual membership in both parties. Its party program closely resembles that of the VMRO–DPMNE.[citation needed]
In the 2006 parliamentary election, VMRO–NP won 6.1% of the vote and 6 seats in the Assembly. In the 2011 parliamentary election, VMRO–NP received 28,500 votes (2.51%), losing all of its seats. VMRO–NP remained an extra-parliamentary party until the 2020 parliamentary election, when it participated in the We Can alliance led by the Social Democratic Union of Macedonia and won one seat.
This article about a Macedonian political party is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Rizzoli & Isles is an American crime drama series based on the novels by Tess Gerritsen, starring Angie Harmon and Sasha Alexander as the respective title characters. It premiered on TNT on July 12, 2010, and set a record as cable TV's most watched commercial-supported series launch.[1] The premiere was later recognized as the all-time most successful cable series launch, with DVR viewers the week of the premiere increasing viewership to just over 9 million.[2]
As of September 5, 2016,[update] 105 episodes of Rizzoli & Isles have aired.
When a possible witness to a double homicide is arrested, Jane goes undercover in prison to get information from her so the team can track down the murderer. After solving the case, Jane inquires about an FBI instructor job that was offered to her while at Quantico.
Niwari is a town, near city of Ghaziabad in Ghaziabad district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. 
Niwari is located at 28°53′N 77°32′E﻿ / ﻿28.88°N 77.53°E﻿ / 28.88; 77.53.[3] It has an average elevation of 215 metres (705 feet).
As of the 2001 Census of India,[4] Niwari had a population of 9919. Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. Niwari has an average literacy rate of 62%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 69%, and female literacy is 55%. In Niwari, 15% of the population is under 6 years of age.
Ghaziabad District Administration
ghaziabad.nic.in
This Ghaziabad district location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bernard Busokoza (born August 6, 1953) is a Burundi Tutsi politician who served as the Vice President of Burundi from October 2013 to February 1, 2014.
Busokoza was born on August 6, 1953, in Mugamba Commune, Bururi Province, Burundi.[1] In 1974, he graduated from the University of Burundi with a degree in economics.[1]
Busokoza has held various senior positions across the country in the telecommunications field.
He was vice chairman of the Board of Directors of Meridien Biao Bank from 1988 until 1991. And From 1996–1999, he was CEO of Africell Burundi.[1] He is currently the Vice-President of Africell's board.[1]
In October 2013, Therence Sinunguruza resigned as vice president and Busokoza assumed the position.[2]
On February 1, 2014, after Busokoza opposed his plans to scrap presidential term limits, Pierre Nkurunziza, the President of Burundi, decided to dismiss Busokoza,[3] sparking a major political crisis in Burundi. Some even compared the crisis to the South Sudanese Civil War.[4] On 19 October 2020 the Supreme Court of Burundi sentenced Busokoza and 18 others to prison for involvement in the 1993 coup attempt and murder of President Melchior Ndadaye.[5]
Busokoza is a father of 6 children.[1] He practices Catholicism.[1]
Kimberly O. Johnson is an American politician. She is a former member of the South Carolina House of Representatives from the 64th District, serving since 2020. She is a member of the Democratic party.[1] She was defeated by Republican challenger Fawn Pedalino in the 2022 general election.[2]

This article about a South Carolina politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Michel Domingue (French pronunciation: [miʃɛl dɔmɛ̃ɡ]; July 28, 1813[citation needed] – May 24, 1877) served as the president of Haiti from 14 June 1874 to 15 April 1876.[1][2]
Michel Domingue was born in Les Cayes in 1813.[citation needed] He graduated from military training and became commander of army units in Sud.[citation needed]
From 8 May 1868 to December 1869, he was president of the autonomous states of the south of Haiti.[citation needed] He was appointed Vice President of the provisional government of Nissage Saget in 1869.[3] On 11 June 1874, General Domingue was elected for a term of eight years as president of Haiti.[1]
Domingue, who was primarily a soldier, had neither the stature nor the tact of a statesman.[1] He therefore issued a decree on 10 September 1874 appointing Septimus Rameau to manage public functions as the Vice-President of the Council of Secretaries of State.[1] Septimus Rameau thus became the true ruler of Haiti.[1] Rameau was dictatorial and domineering by nature, while Michel Domingue was more of a figurehead.[1]
One of Domingue's first acts after his election to the presidency was the signing of an agreement with the Dominican Republic, which the Haitian congress refused to ratify.[1] The agreement established the countries' mutual recognition and in particular an end to the long and bloody border war between them.[1] Septimus Rameau also led negotiations with the President of the Dominican Republic Ignacio María González.[1] The Chief of Staff of President Domingue, General N. Léger, was sent to Santo Domingo to prepare a new agreement.[1] Upon his return to Port-au-Prince on 9 November 1874, he was accompanied by Dominican negotiators to seal a treaty of friendship and an accord on trade and navigation.[1] Haiti recognized and accepted the full independence of the Dominican Republic, and on 20 January 1875 the treaty of friendship was signed between the two countries.[1]
Despite this success in international politics, Haiti's domestic financial situation was devastating.[1] Domingue tried to negotiate a loan with France, which would strain Haitian finances for years.[1] Finally, corruption and fraud were so great that Domingue issued a decree, dated 15 May 1875, for the arrest of Generals Brice, Pierre Monplaisir Pierre, and Pierre Théoma Boisrond-Canal, his political opponent.[1] Boisrond-Canal criticized this financial policy and the loan.[citation needed] He took refuge at the embassy of the United States, causing a diplomatic crisis between Haiti and the United States.[1] Brice and Pierre Monplaisir Pierre were killed[1] while Boisrond-Canal and other opponents fled abroad.[citation needed] Septimus Rameau was accused of being responsible for the deaths of the two generals, as well as the proposed loan with France.[1] He was himself assassinated on a street in Port-au-Prince.[1]
Domingue resigned on 15 April 1876 and went into exile in Kingston, Jamaica, where he died a year later.[citation needed]
Mark VII Limited (formerly Mark VII Productions, pronounced "Mark 7") was the production company of actor and filmmaker Jack Webb, and was active from 1951 to his death in 1982. Many of its series were produced in association with Universal Television; most of them aired on the NBC television network in the United States.
In 1962, the company had signed a deal with Warner Bros. in order to produce motion pictures and television shows as an independent producer.[1]
In 1963, he was employed by Warner Bros. Television, and as a result, he attempted to absorb the company.[2] After failing, he resurrected the company, with Selena Mead as its first project, but it was never materialized,[3] and he joined Universal Television, where he stayed for the next 12 years in order to produce television shows.[4] In 1977, he quit Universal and set up the company independently, with a distribution agreement with Worldvision Enterprises and maintains an office at Samuel Goldwyn Studios.[5]
The estate of Jack Webb now owns the full rights to the company's library, with the exception of the original 1954 feature film version of Dragnet (originally released by Warner Bros., but now owned by Universal Pictures), and the films Pete Kelly's Blues and The D.I. (which are controlled by original distributor Warner Bros.). 
However, Webb's three seminal series, Dragnet (the 1967-1970 incarnation), Emergency!, and Adam-12, are now available on DVD from either Universal or Shout! Factory, the first two under license from the Webb estate, the latter in-house since Universal was reassigned the Adam-12 series copyright. The MeTV and Cozi TV Television Networks also air episodes of the Mark VII Limited shows.
All series aired on NBC except as noted.
Mark VII's final production was The 25th Man, an unsold television pilot that aired on NBC in 1982.
Mark VII Limited was known for its production logo attached to the end of its productions. The logo, in use in one form or another for much of the company's existence, showed the hands of Jack Webb's construction foreman Harold C. Nyby holding a stamp against a sheet of metal.[6] As a timpani roll played, he struck two blows on the stamp with a hammer and then removed both tools to reveal the Roman numeral VII indented into the sheet. 
The origin of the name "Mark VII" is unclear. One source said the name meant nothing, and that it was made up over coffee one day.[7] Another source says Webb just liked the look of the Roman numerals.
The Mark VII production logo is one of the more recognizable logos of its time and has become iconic, with many instances of filmmakers and production companies paying homage to it in various ways, most notably Williams Street Productions, originally Ghost Planet Industries, of Adult Swim/Cartoon Network programming, whose logo utilizes the same drumroll/hammer clinks soundtrack from the 1967 Mark VII logo. The Mark VII Limited logo was also spoofed at the end of the 1954 Woody Woodpecker cartoon Under The Counter Spy. In this spoof, the man accidentally hits his thumb with the hammer and yells "OUCH!", then pulls the hammer away to reveal the ending title card. The man's voice was supplied by Daws Butler. The 1955 Three Stooges' short Blunder Boys not only was a parody of Dragnet, but ended with Larry being stamped with "VII 1/2 The End" on his forehead. Gunther-Wahl Productions used a similar card at the end of its cartoons.
The logo was remade multiple times during the company's history. It is reported that the early logos featured Jack Webb's hands but the later logos featured Ivan Martin's. Martin was the director of studio operations for 20th Century Fox at the time of his retirement but worked in the studio's visual effects department during production of the logos.
In an episode of The Dick Van Dyke Show, Rob Petrie references the "Mark VII Limited" logo to a police officer when referencing the end of a case where his dining room table had been stolen.
Filmmaker Spike Lee pays homage to the logo in the logo for his own production company 40 Acres and a Mule Filmworks.
In addition, the sound of the hammer striking the stamp was used in the intro to the WWE entrance music of wrestler Greg "The Hammer" Valentine.
Mariusz Lewandowski (Polish pronunciation: [ˈmarjuʂ lɛvanˈdɔfski]; born 18 May 1979) is a Polish professional football manager and former player. He was most recently in charge of Polish I liga club Bruk-Bet Termalica Nieciecza.[2]
He was mostly a central defender and could also play as a defensive midfielder. He spent the majority of his club career with Ukrainian side Shakhtar Donetsk, with whom he won the UEFA Cup, five Ukrainian Premier League titles and 3 Ukrainian Cups. In 2009, he was named Polish Footballer of the Year.
Born in Legnica, Lewandowski started his career with Polish club Zagłębie Lubin in 1996.
After a short time in Dyskobolia Grodzisk, he was bought by Ukrainian Premier League club Shakhtar Donetsk in 2001. For nine seasons, Lewandowski was an integral part of the team, which won 5 Ukrainian Championships and 3 Ukrainian Cups during his spell in Donetsk. On 20 May 2009, he played in the final of the UEFA Cup against Werder Bremen, with Shakhtar claiming the trophy.[3]
In July 2010, he signed with fellow Ukrainian Premier League side PFC Sevastopol.[4] On 27 November 2013, he left the Crimean club.
On 24 September 2014, after remaining a free agent for 10 months, he announced his retirement.
He was named in the 23-man Poland's 2006 World Cup squad held in Germany.[5] He was also a member of the Poland squad at Euro 2008.[6]
After Franciszek Smuda took over the national team in 2009, he stopped playing for Poland.
He was however, called up by Waldemar Fornalik in October 2013 for the matches against Ukraine[7] and England in the qualification campaign for the World Cup.[8]
Shakhtar Donetsk[9]
Individual
Khaneh Sar (Persian: خانه سر, also Romanized as Khāneh Sar; also known as Khānsar-e Qāsemābād)[1] is a village in Owshiyan Rural District, Chaboksar District, Rudsar County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 669, in 208 families.[2]
This Rudsar County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Drake's Venture is a 1980 film depiction of Francis Drake's voyage of circumnavigation.  Produced by Westward Television to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the event, it nevertheless focuses on the voyage's most controversial aspect, the execution of the gentleman Thomas Doughty for mutiny.  The film has only been aired twice: once in the UK on 28 December 1980, and once in the US, on Masterpiece Theatre, 27 March 1983.
The film opens with Drake's return from his voyage of circumnavigation.  He is nervous about how he will be received at home, and rightly so, for he has executed Thomas Doughty, an influential courtier, investor in the voyage, and formerly, his closest friend.  The story is mostly told in flashback as Drake recounts the circumstances of the voyage to Queen Elizabeth I.  Although it is clear how Drake interprets the events that led to Doughty's execution, the depicted scenes paint a more ambiguous tale.  Conflict between Drake and Doughty grows due to an escalating pattern of Drake's increasing autocracy and paranoia, and Doughty's underhanded means to regain the authority he sees as rightly his due.
Before the fleet leaves Plymouth, Drake learns that someone has betrayed the news of the voyage to William Cecil, Lord Burghley.  Drake is upset as the destination of the venture - to raid Spanish ships in Peru and return home via a route theorized by John Dee called "the Straits of Anian" - is top secret, known only to Drake, Doughty, the Queen and a few select insiders.  Drake has told the crew they will be voyaging to Alexandria on a trade mission.
Tension is high when the truth is revealed.  A few of Drake's crewmen are discontent at being tricked into a long, dangerous voyage; Doughty has second thoughts and tries to convince Drake to redirect the fleet to less uncertain plunder on the Spanish Main.  Drake is resolute, but alienates his former friend through his high-handedness.  Doughty believes that his investment, his advocacy of the venture at court, and his command of the soldiers accompanying the fleet, entitle him to equal command.
The fleet encounters the Santa Maria, a Portuguese vessel.  Upon its capture, Drake induces the cooperation of its captain and navigator, Nuno da Silva, who has an extensive knowledge of the coastline of Brazil.  Hostilities escalate when Drake reprimands one of Doughty's officers for stealing from a Portuguese prisoner.
Doughty is given command of the prize ship.  Drake's ship, the Pelican, immediately falls victim to a number of misfortunes including a lack of wind and an outbreak of scurvy.  Doughty's ship is nowhere to be found.  Drake becomes increasingly paranoid, attributing the misfortunes to Doughty's betrayal and his interest in the occult.
Upon the reunion of the ships, Doughty continues to agitate for what he perceives is his due: co-equal status in directing the fleet.  He has a final confrontation with Drake, who strikes him and has him bound to the mast of the Pelican.
The film climaxes at the scene of Doughty's execution at San Julián.  Drake brings Doughty to trial, accusing him of mutiny and witchcraft.  Encouraged by his nephew, Drake induces the ship's carpenter, Ned Bright, to perjure himself in order to assure the conviction.  Drake manipulates the men into sentencing Doughty to death.  The chaplain, Francis Fletcher, tries to persuade Doughty to confess his sins, but the gentleman protests his innocence until the end.  He takes communion with Drake and goes resolutely to his death.  Drake then makes a speech promising the men wealth beyond their wildest dreams, but the gentlemen adventurers and the mariners must settle their differences.  He changes the name of the Pelican to the Golden Hind, in hopes of placating Sir Christopher Hatton, Doughty's former employer.
Drake's successful exploits of plunder and subsequent return to England are covered almost incidentally.  One disturbing scene involves the abandonment of the navigator Nuno da Silva on the shores of Mexico.  Drake knows that da Silva will certainly fall into the hands of the Spanish Inquisition, yet is unwilling for a Portuguese national to see the Straits of Anian.  The treatment of da Silva is extremely upsetting to the crew, including Drake's nephew, who formerly idolized his uncle.
Drake cannot find Anian, and so returns home the long way, by going completely around the globe.  After hearing Drake's story, Elizabeth, clearly interested in the riches which Drake has won, grants him her full protection from Doughty's friends and from the Spanish king, who has demanded his execution.  She cynically informs him that if he had not succeeded, he would be as good as dead for the execution of Doughty.  The film ends with Drake's knighthood, a triumph that seems oddly hollow due to the strained reaction shots of some of the surviving characters including Drake's nephew and the preacher, Francis Fletcher.
According to actor Paul Darrow, Drake's Venture was Westward Television's attempt to justify its franchise renewal.  The subject matter was especially appropriate since Westward's logo was the Golden Hind.  The attempt failed; ironically, the news that the south-west franchise was given to TSW (Television South West) was made during a commercial break during the lone showing of Drake's Venture in Britain.
What little we know of the production is from Darrow's autobiography, You're Him, Aren't You?. In it, he remarks that the filming took three months, using a full-scale authentic replica of the Golden Hind. The ocean scenes were filmed on the English Channel; the location shooting for San Julian was at Slapton Sands in Devon.  According to Darrow, the sea was rough and Michael Irving, the actor who played Leonard Vicary, became so ill he had to be hospitalized, of necessity reducing his role in the film.
Darrow, Paul.  You're Him, Aren't You?  Great Britain: Big Finish Productions, 2006.
Dedomè is a town and arrondissement in the Atlantique Department of southern Benin. It is an administrative division under the jurisdiction of the commune of Kpomassè. According to the population census conducted by the Institut National de la Statistique Benin on February 15, 2002, the arrondissement had a total population of 5,294.[1]
6°27′43″N 2°01′26″E﻿ / ﻿6.4620°N 2.0238°E﻿ / 6.4620; 2.0238
This Atlantique Department location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Michael David Brown (born August 3, 1973),[1] professionally known as Michael Ealy, is an American  actor. He is known for his roles in Barbershop (2002), 2 Fast 2 Furious (2003), Takers (2010), Think Like a Man (2012),  About Last Night (2014), Think Like a Man Too (2014), The Perfect Guy (2015), and The Intruder (2019). He has a number of starring and recurring roles on numerous television sitcoms.
Ealy was born in Washington, D.C.,[2] and was raised in Silver Spring, Maryland. Ealy went to Springbrook High School[3] and graduated from the University of Maryland in College Park, Maryland in 1996 with a degree in English [4][5] His mother worked for IBM and his father was in the grocery business.[6]
He started his acting career in the late 1990s, appearing in several off-Broadway stage productions. Among his first film roles were Bad Company and Kissing Jessica Stein. His breakout role came in 2002's Barbershop, in which he plays reformed felon Ricky Nash, a role that he reprised in the 2004 sequel, Barbershop 2: Back in Business.[7] In 2003, he played the role of Slap Jack in the second installment of the Fast and the Furious film series, 2 Fast 2 Furious. Later in 2004, Ealy appeared in Never Die Alone with DMX.[8] He also appeared in Mariah Carey's music video for her hit single "Get Your Number" from her 2005 album The Emancipation of Mimi.[5]
In 2005, Ealy co-starred in the Television film version of Their Eyes Were Watching God, produced by Oprah Winfrey and Quincy Jones, and starring Academy Award-winning actress Halle Berry.[9] The same year, he starred in the independent film Jellysmoke, directed by Mark Banning. He starred in the Showtime television series Sleeper Cell, the first season of which aired December 4–18, 2005, and the second season of which, Sleeper Cell: American Terror, aired December 10–17, 2006.[10]
On December 14, 2006, Ealy was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for his role in Sleeper Cell: American Terror in the category Best Performance by an Actor in a Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television.[5] In December 2008 he was featured in the movie Seven Pounds alongside Will Smith as Ben Thomas.[11] He also starred as the male lead in Beyoncé's "Halo" music video,[5] and as CIA Field Officer Marshall Vogel in the ABC television series FlashForward.[12]
Ealy also appears in the limited-edition coffee table book (About Face) by celebrity photographer John Russo, published by Pixie Press Worldwide.[13][14] In 2009, Ealy performed in The People Speak, a documentary feature film that uses dramatic and musical performances of the letters, diaries, and speeches of everyday Americans, based on historian Howard Zinn's A People's History of the United States.[15]
In 2010, Ealy appeared as attorney Derrick Bond in the second season of The Good Wife.[16]  He co-starred in the 2010 action movie Takers as Jake Attica and appeared as Travis Marks in USA Network's original series Common Law about two cops who have to go to couples counseling because they argue too much. Common Law premiered following Fairly Legal on Friday, May 11, 2012.[17]
Ealy appeared as Dominic in the 2012 ensemble comedy Think Like a Man and its 2014 sequel, Think Like a Man Too,[18] and appeared as "Papa Joe" in the 2012 inspirational film Unconditional.[19] He appeared opposite Think Like a Man co-star Kevin Hart in the 2014 remake of About Last Night.[20]
In 2013, Ealy signed on to play co-lead "Dorian" in the Fox television series Almost Human. The sci-fi police procedural takes place in the year 2048 and follows the relationship between two cops as they struggle to solve futuristic crimes that involve complex technology. Ealy depicts the android "Dorian", an older, "DRN" android model that is considered to be less reliable due to its artificial emotions and that is tasked with protecting his partner John Kennex (Karl Urban).[21] The show aired for one season on Fox from 2013 to 2014.[22]
In 2015, Ealy played serial killer "Theo" in season 3 of the Fox television series The Following.[23] He starred as Eric Warner in the second season of the ABC mystery crime series Secrets and Lies, which aired in the fall of 2016.[24] From 2017 to 2019, Ealy starred in the fourth, fifth and final season of Being Mary Jane opposite Gabrielle Union.[25][26] 2019 also saw Ealy star in Stumptown on ABC alongside Cobie Smulders, Jake Johnson and Camryn Manheim
In October 2012, Ealy married Afghan-American entrepreneur Khatira Rafiqzada,[27] his girlfriend of four years, in a ceremony in Los Angeles,[28] and together they have a son and a daughter.[29][30][31][32]
Ealy is a fan of the Washington Commanders.[33]
Atlanta was an American country music group formed in 1982 in Nashville, Tennessee, USA. It was composed of Brad Griffis (vocals, bass guitar), Bill Davidson (vocals, guitar), Tony Ingram (vocals, fiddle), Alan David (vocals, lead guitar), Allen Collay (vocals, keyboards), Bill Packard (vocals, keyboards), Jeff Baker (bass vocal, harmonica), Dick Stevens (bass), and John Holder (drums). Between 1983 and 1988, Atlanta recorded two albums for MCA Records and charted nine hit singles on the Billboard country chart.
Chart history included two Top 10 country hits in "Atlanta Burned Again Last Night" and "Sweet Country Music". The latter was also the band's highest-charting single, peaking at #2 on Cashbox.
Atlanta was formed in 1982 by Brad Griffis (bass guitar), Bill Davidson (vocals, rhythm guitar), Tony Ingram (vocals, fiddle), Alan David (lead guitar), Allen Collay (keyboards), Bill Packard (keyboards), Jeff Baker (harmonica), Dick Stevens (bass), and John Holder (drums).[1] Prior to the foundation, Ingram had recorded on Epic Records in the band Spurzz,[1] and Stevens, Davidson, Griffis, and David had previously toured as a re-establishment of The Vogues.[2] The group was founded through the assistance of record producer Larry McBride, who had also launched the career of Alabama.[3] With nine members, Atlanta was the largest country music band at the time.[3]
"Atlanta Burned Again Last Night" was the band's debut single, released in 1983 on the independent MDJ record label, which McBride owned.[4] This recording spent seventeen weeks on the Billboard country singles chart, peaking at #9.[1][5] This single was one of the highest-charting debut singles by an independently signed country music act.[3]
After it came the #11 "Dixie Dreaming", the band's second and final MDJ release. By early 1984, MCA Records assumed promotion of the band's singles and albums, releasing "Sweet Country Music" early in the year. It became the band's highest-charting hit, reaching #5 on the Billboard country chart.[1][6] MCA released the band's debut album Pictures in 1984. MCA also released the singles "Pictures" and "Wishful Drinkin'", the latter of which was included in the film Ellie.[1]
Before releasing the second album, Holder had left and Darrell "Boo Boo" McAfee joins on drums. Atlanta released its self-titled second album for MCA in 1985. It included the singles "My Sweet-Eyed Georgia Girl" and "Why Not Tonight", both of which peaked outside the Country Top 40.[1] The band later moved to the Southern Tracks label as Davidson and David left and David was replaced by Jody Worrell on guitar, and releasing "We Always Agree on Love" and "Sad Clichés".[1]
Allen Collay (born Allen Callais on January 1, 1943, in New Orleans) died on February 16, 2010, at age 67.[7]
Gzinka [ˈɡʑinka] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Łyszkowice, within Łowicz County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 5 kilometres (3 mi) north-west of Łyszkowice, 10 km (6 mi) south of Łowicz, and 39 km (24 mi) north-east of the regional capital Łódź.
During the German Invasion of Poland in 1939, German forces on 30 September murdered 11 people in the village. .[1]

This Łowicz County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Luke Holmes (born March, 1990 in Oldham, England) is an English retired footballer.[2]

This biographical article related to association football in England, about a forward born in the 1990s, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bargème (French pronunciation: [baʁʒɛm]; Occitan: Bargema) is a commune in the Var department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in southeastern France.
In 1949 Evelyn Watts, an English social worker, with a friend set up a home in Bargème for disadvantaged children to recover their strength and confidence in a healthy climate. Her book Castle on a Hill[3] describes the venture.

This Var geographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Jeremy Broun is a British furniture designer maker, writer, film maker and musician.
His Caterpillar Rocking Chair in 1984 was described as, 'visually stunning, a good combination of colour, structure and practicality... and has the advantage of being a truly original idea : just as Saarinen and his pedestal chairs converted four chairlegs into one' (An Encyclopedia of Chairs - The Apple Press).
He won a Winston Churchill Travel Scholarship to Sweden, Finland and Italy in 1979 and in the same year was elected a Fellow of The Society of Designer Craftsmen, the original Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society founded by William Morris. Since 1980 he has been a member of the Crafts Council Index of Selected Makers.
He has exhibited at the Royal Society of Arts and the Ars Nova Museum in Finland.
His work was included in the 'First Sale of Contemporary British Crafts' at Sotheby's in 1980 and in 2002 at the Centenary exhibition celebrating the Hill House designed by Charles Rennie Mackintosh. In 1989 he gained The Worshipful Company of Furniture Makers Ambrose Heal Award for his craft documentary films. He has written numerous articles on woodworking and design including "Furniture Today" and a History of (Furniture) Designer Makers in 2005. In 2006 Broun was voted 'Professional Woodworker of the year 2005' by The Woodworker magazine. In 2007 Broun set up his own publishing company and launched The Revised Bespoke edition of his first book 'The Incredible Router'. In 2008 he was invited to become a freelance inspector for The British Accreditation Council for independent further and higher education. As a musician Jeremy plays the electro-acoustic guitars that he makes and can occasionally be heard busking on the streets of his home town Bath and has performed at the Bath Fringe Festival. In 2009 he was elected a Fellow of The Royal Society of Arts and in 2015 he resigned expressing concern that he felt the Society had drifted from its core aims to promote the Arts and Manufacturing. Since 2010 he has been a judge for the Alan Peters[1] Award for Excellence for furniture makers under 30 years of age.
The Smradlivo Lake (Bulgarian: Смрадливото езеро [smrɐdˈlivoto ˈɛzɛro]) is a glacial lake located in the central section of the Rila mountain range, south-western Bulgaria. It is the second of the five Smradlivi Lakes and is situated at an altitude of 2,298 m in a hanging valley facing the valley of the Rilska River to the north between the summits of Rilets (2,713 m) to the south-west and Kyoravitsa (2,612 m) to the south.[1] It falls within the boundaries of the Rila Monastery Nature Park.[2]
The Smradlivoto Lake is oval shaped with a maximum length of 900 m the width of 260 m. With a surface area of 212,000 m² (21.2 ha) it is the largest glacial lake in Bulgaria and the Balkan Peninsula.[1][3] Its depth reaches 24 m; the volume is around 1,720,000 m³.[1] Its outflow is at the northern end, forming a stream that flows into the Rilska River, a left tributary of the Struma, after 1.2 km. Along its northern shore there is a small dyke to regulate the outflow to the small Rilska cascade.[1][4] The waters of the Smradlivo Lake have low hardness, high content of oxygen and low oxidisability.[4] It sustains populations of brown trout and due to its remoteness there are brown bears, chamois and red deer roaming the forests in the vicinity of the lake.[5]
Its Bulgarian name literally means 'the stinking lake'. Many legends about the lake are linked with the 10th-century medieval Bulgarian hermit and saint John of Rila who found refuge in the nearby valleys and established the Rila Monastery.
Gerda "Jane" Bernigau (5 October 1908 – 23 March 1992) was an SS Oberaufseherin in Nazi concentration camps before and during World War II.
Bernigau was born on 5 October 1908, in Sagan, Germany (now Żagań, Poland). In 1938, she joined the camp staff at the Lichtenburg early camp in eastern Germany. There, because of her willingness to get her job done, she was eventually promoted to chief wardress (Oberaufseherin) over the vast system of Gross-Rosen women's satellite camps. In May 1939, Bernigau was sent to Ravensbrück concentration camp as a guard.
In September 1942 (or 1943), Bernigau was sent as a wardress to the Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp satellite camp at Sankt Lambrecht.[1] Bernigau was posted to the Gross-Rosen concentration camp in 1944 as chief wardress and dealt with the initial training of female guard candidates until they were dispersed out to Langenbielau/Reichenbach for completion of their course.  
She was awarded the Kriegsverdienstkreuz II. Klasse ohne Schwerter medal in 1944 for her devotion to the Third Reich and her camp services, and she had tremendous power over her subordinate female guards as well as the women prisoners in the sub-camps.[2] In her 2008 book, A Narrow Bridge to Life, Bella Gutterman wrote: "The commander of Gross-Rosen inspected the camps frequently and went on field trips to choose appropriate locations for new camps. SS Chief Supervisor Jane Bernigau did a stint in Gross-Rosen and sometimes accompanied the commander on visits that had been chosen for new camps.  She also joined him in visits to camps and factories where the employment of prisoners had to be regularized."[3]
In February 1945 Bernigau accompanied male SS leaders from Gross-Rosen to Reichenau, from where she fled during May 1945, and was never prosecuted for war crimes. 
After the war she lived in West Germany. According to the German historian Isabell Sprenger, Bernigau was several times interrogated by the authorities, for the last time in 1976. She died in Husum in March 1992 at the age of 83.[4][5]
Garsu Pasaulis Vilnius was an ice hockey team in Vilnius, Lithuania. They played in the Lithuania Hockey League, the top level of ice hockey in Lithuania, from 2001 to 2003.
In the 2001-02 season, they finished first in the regular season and won the championship by defeating SC Energija in the final, 7–6 in a shootout.[1] During the 2002-03 season, the club finished second in the regular season and qualified for the final, again facing SC Energija. They lost both games of the doubleheader by scores of 10-2 and 11–2.[2]
Radical monopoly is a concept defined by philosopher and author Ivan Illich in his 1973 book, Tools for Conviviality,[1] and revisited in his later work, which describes how a technology or service becomes so exceptionally dominant that even with multiple providers, its users are excluded from society without access to the product. His initial example is the effect of cars on societies, where the car itself shaped cities by its needs, so much so that people without cars become excluded from participation in cities. A radical monopoly is when the dominance of one type of product supersedes dominance by any one brand.
While the concept of "Radical Monopoly" has been referenced informally by "cultural studies bloggers and academics", an example of the concept getting more formal traction includes a paper published in the journal Problems of Education in the 21st century whose abstract describes an example whereby, "information  and  communication  technologies might possess  potentials  to  develop  various  radical  monopolies, while  education  might  be  one  of  the main vehicles for such developments."[2][3]
Illich extends the concept with examples from medicine and learning, where a radical monopoly on medicine deprives patients of care that isn't provided by doctors, and a radical monopoly on learning defines students whose knowledge is developed outside the classroom as "uneducated." He writes, "Radical monopoly exists where a major tool rules out natural competence."
In his later book Energy and Equity, Illich refines the definition to include, "Any industrial product that comes in per capita quanta beyond a given in-tensity exercises a radical monopoly over the satisfaction of a need. Beyond some point, compulsory schooling destroys the environment for learning, medical delivery systems dry up the non-therapeutic sources of health, and transportation smothers traffic."[4]
The definitions require a kind of conceptual economic inversion, where instead of a producer monopolizing a market, it is the product itself that both produces and administers to its own need. An analogy for such an inversion in economics can be found in ideas like the Giffen Good and Veblen Good, where the factors that describe the demand characteristics of a good are logically inverted and yield a new type of good that was initially an artifact of the logical inversion, but has been found to apply to real world goods such as luxury items, investment bubbles, and status signalling. Illich's radical monopoly concept is distinct from a valuable good that becomes scarce because of demand for it, or anti-competitive behavior by the producer, rather it is defined "by virtue of its acquired ability to create and shape the need which it alone can satisfy."[4]
Tersoal (Dutch: Terzool) is a village in Súdwest-Fryslân municipality in the province of Friesland, the Netherlands. It had a population of around 355 in January 2017.[3]
The village was first mentioned in 1335 as "in Zole", and means muddy stream.[4] Tersoal is a terp (artificial living hill) village to the south of the former Middelzee.[5] It used to be an isolated village which could only be accessed from the water.[6]
The Dutch Reformed church was built in 1838 as a replacement of the medieval church.[5] The tower dates from the 14th century.[6]
Tersoal was home to 235 people in 1840.[6] In 1866, a road was built and Tersoal developed in a road village.[5] Before 2011, the village was part of the Boarnsterhim municipality and before 1984 it belonged to Rauwerdhem municipality.[6]
 Media related to Tersoal at Wikimedia Commons

This Friesland location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
In enzymology, a phosphoethanolamine N-methyltransferase (EC 2.1.1.103) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction
Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are S-adenosyl methionine and ethanolamine phosphate, whereas its two products are S-adenosylhomocysteine and N-methylethanolamine phosphate.
This enzyme belongs to the family of transferases, specifically those transferring one-carbon group methyltransferases.  The systematic name of this enzyme class is S-adenosyl-L-methionine:ethanolamine-phosphate N-methyltransferase. This enzyme is also called phosphoethanolamine methyltransferase.  This enzyme participates in glycerophospholipid metabolism.

This EC 2.1 enzyme-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
John Currie (13 June 1931 – 23 February 1997) was  a former Australian rules footballer who played with Richmond in the Victorian Football League (VFL). [1]
Download coordinates as:
The State Register of Heritage Places is maintained by the Heritage Council of Western Australia. As of 2023[update], 55 places are heritage-listed in the Shire of Trayning,[1] of which four are on the State Register of Heritage Places.[2]
The Western Australian State Register of Heritage Places, as of 2023[update], lists the following four state registered places within the Shire of Trayning:
Rubus rosarius is a rare North American species of brambles in the rose family. It has been found only in the States of Maryland, Delaware, and Virginia in the eastern United States.[2][3]
The genetics of Rubus is extremely complex, so that it is difficult to decide on which groups should be recognized as species. There are many rare species with limited ranges such as this. Further study is suggested to clarify the taxonomy.[4]

This Rubus article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Unione Sportiva Dilettantistica Atletico Catania is an Italian association football club founded in 1967 and based in Catania, Sicily. Throughout its history, the club played extensively at Serie C1 and Serie C2 professional level, almost gaining promotion to Serie B on two occasions during the 1990s. The club is currently part of the regionally organized amateur Eccellenza league, following two disbandments that led Atletico Catania down to the bottom ranks of national football.
The club was founded in 1967 as Sport Club Mascalucia, then renamed and relocated in 1986 by the Catanese entrepreneur Salvatore Tabita. They won their local title and were thus promoted to Serie C2. After finishing in 10th place in their first season, they went on to change their name in 1989 to Atletico Leonzio and moved to Lentini. The team was then acquired by Franco Proto, and won promotion into Serie C1 in 1993.
In 1994 Proto, trying to satisfy the absence of a football club in the city of Catania, brought the club from Lentini. Their home games were moved to the 21,000 capacity stadium of Stadio Angelo Massimino. This was because Catania's primary and historical club, Calcio Catania, had been cancelled in 1993 by the FIGC; Calcio Catania were however later entered into the Sicilian Eccellenza due to a court decision.
The club changed their name from Atletico Leonzio to Atletico Catania, doing a controversial move, specially in the eyes of the club's fans from Lentini. They played for seven seasons in Serie C, coming close to promotion to Serie B twice, reaching the playoffs in both 1996–97 and 1997–98, but missing out both times.
The 2000s have been far more difficult for the club. They were relegated down to the Sicilian Eccellenza in 2001 because of financial difficulties. In 2002 Proto sold the club to Paolo Pinazzo and Gianfranco Vullo. Atletico Catania went on sliding further down, and was again cancelled in 2005, when a group of supporters led by Santino Crisafi founded a new club with the current denomination and registered it to Terza Categoria, the lowest division in Italian football, for the 2005–06 season. That year Atletico Catania reached a fourth place, not enough for gaining promotion. However, little before the beginning of season 2006–07, Atletico Catania won the title of the Sant'Agata li Battiati making them applicable to play in the Prima Categoria. The new club ended its 2006–07 campaign in eighth place. The club was renamed as U.S.D. Atletico Catania for the 2007–08 season, that saw the atletisti winning the Round F of Prima Categoria league, being thus promoted to Promozione for the 2008–09 season. They completed their first Promozione season in eighth place, playing their home games in the neighbouring town of Aci Bonaccorsi. They have moved back to Catania for the 2009–10 season, playing at the Campo Comunale "Zia Lisa". They promoted to Eccellenza Sicily in 2010–11 season but relegated back to Promozione at next season after finishing 14th.
Atletico Catania returned to Eccellenza in 2015, as they were admitted to fill a vacancy in the league. After an immediate relegation, they successively were promoted once again to Eccellenza in 2017 as Promozione winners.
Andalucia is a genus of jakobids, currently containing the sole species A. godoyi.[1]
The morphology of Andalucia broadly resembles that of other jakobids. Molecular data has not always been conclusive, but recent phylogenomic analyses indicate that Andalucia is a sister group to the other jakobids, or, in other words, more closely related to them than to the Heterolobosea or Euglenozoa (the other two groups in the Discoba).[2] The α-tubulin gene of Andalucia more closely resembles that of opisthokonts and diplomonads than its closer relatives, the apparent result of horizontal gene transfer.[3]
As of 2015, the soil heterotroph Andalucia godoyi is the only described species in the genus. The species Andalucia incarcerata, living in sulphide-rich marine intertidal sediments,[3] was transferred to the genus Stygiella in 2015.
Analysis of DNA sequences from the environment suggests at least two additional species that have not been isolated or formally described.[3]

This Excavata-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies (SSCBS), previously known as College of Business Studies, is a premier institute for management studies under Delhi University, India.[1] It is named after Sukhdev Thapar, who was a prominent freedom fighter in the pre-independence era. The college was established in 1987 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development[2] as the first institution of a collegiate business school in India to offer management education at the undergraduate level. It is considered one of the best undergraduate business schools in India.[3]
The college offers four types of courses – three at the undergraduate level and one at the postgraduate diploma level.
Apart from these, SSCBS offers multiple certificate courses such as FinTech, Data Analytics, Business Intelligence, and Digital Marketing.
The selection criteria is based on CUET performance. In the year 2009, around 217 were selected out of over 20,000 applicants, making SSCBS one of the most competitive undergraduate colleges in India. The application process for this begins in April every year, with the entrance test being conducted on the first Sunday of June.
The selection for B.Sc. Computer Science and PGDCA course is purely based on merit.
SSCBS was ranked #92 among (all) colleges in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework in 2023[5] and #1 among Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) colleges in India by India Today in 2020[6] and 2021.[7]
The campus is located on Dr. K.N. Katju Marg, Rohini, Delhi. The college campus has been built over an area of 5 acres covering a floor area of 217,800 square feet approximately. The college building has eight floors (including ground floor) along with a basement parking for staff and students. The college has a hostel for boys and girls with a capacity of 72 each. This campus was inaugurated in 2017, when the campus was shifted from its old location in Vivek Vihar to Rohini, Delhi.[8]
Campus placements are maintained through a dedicated student team at the Career Development Centre. Some of the reputed companies that recruit from CBS include Bain and Company, McKinsey Knowledge Center, Kearney, CB Richard Ellis, and Ernst & Young.[9]
Frank Nelson Richman (July 1, 1881 – April 29, 1956) was an American lawyer, politician, and judge who served as a justice of the Indiana Supreme Court from January 6, 1941, to January 6, 1947. Richman also participated as a judge in the Nuremberg trials, as one of the judges of the Flick trial.
Richman was born in Columbus, Indiana,[1] to Silas Tevis Richman (1852–1938) and Elma Jane Richman (née Baker, 1857–1953). On his father's side, Frank Richman was descended from German Quakers (later Methodists) who settled originally in Salem County, New Jersey. Silas Richman, originally from Decatur County, worked first as a schoolteacher and then as a medical doctor. On his mother's side, the Baker family were originally from Rowan County, North Carolina and were also Methodists. Silas Richman met Elma Baker while he was teaching school in Jamestown. They had two children; Frank and his older sister, Alice.[2][3]
At a young age, Frank Richman and his family moved to Princeton, Kansas, where his father operated a general practice. In 1892, when Frank was eleven, the Richmans moved to the South Side of Chicago, Illinois, where his father opened another general practice until his retirement in 1927. Frank Richman graduated from Englewood High School at age 16.[3]
Frank Richman began his higher education at Northwestern University (in Evanston, Illinois), originally planning to become a doctor like his father before discovering that he disliked working with cadavers. He then attended Lake Forest College (in Lake Forest, Illinois), where he was a member of the school's glee club, played for the college's baseball team, worked as a chapel organist, won prizes in composition and debate, and also served as the editor-in-chief of the school newspaper, the Stentor. Richman graduated from Lake Forest College in 1904 with an A.B. For two years, he worked as a newspaper reporter in Rockford, Illinois and La Crosse, Wisconsin. In 1906, he began studying law at the University of Chicago Law School, leaving the school in 1908 without obtaining a Juris Doctor degree. He moved his family back to the town where he was born, Columbus. He was admitted to the Bartholomew County bar and began practicing law at Baker & Richman (later Baker, Richman & Sharpnack) from 1908 to 1933. He finally got his law degree in 1940, taking his final classes at the Indiana University Maurer School of Law in Bloomington.[2][3]
Richman was a member of the Indiana State Bar Association, serving as the association's president from 1931 to 1932. During this time, Richman authored an influential article in the Indiana Law Journal, titled "A Majority of Electors Means a Majority of Those Voting on the Question." The article (in addition to a brief written by a committee of bar association members that Richman was a part of) led to an important ruling by the state Supreme Court decision, in the case of In re Todd, which overturned their 1870s ruling in the case of State V. Swift, where the court had invalidated the results of a referendum regarding new amendments to the state constitution. Richman's article also led to other important state Supreme Court rulings in the cases of In re Denny and In re Boswell, and also led to the removal of section 21 of article 7 of the state constitution. The removal of this section allowed for the Indiana Supreme Court to regulate admission to the Indiana bar via the new state Board of Law Examiners (created in 1931 via legislation enacted by the General Assembly), whose members were appointed by the Supreme Court.[3][4]
Richman, a Republican, was elected to the Indiana Supreme Court and began serving on the bench in 1941,[1] succeeding Justice George Tremain. Richman was known as a moderate at a time when the Indiana Republican Party was becoming more conservative. At the Indiana Republican Party convention of 1946, Richman was purged from the party due to his dissent in the case of State ex rel. v. Montgomery Circuit Court, which blocked Governor Ralph Gates's plans to reform state alcohol laws. He left the court in 1947, succeeded by Justice James Emmert.[2][3]
Starting in 1944, Richman began to teach part-time at Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law (in Indianapolis). After leaving the Supreme Court, Richman became a professor of law at the school, teaching procedure, equity, and corporate law,[2][3] until his retirement from that position in 1952.[1]
In 1947, following the end of the Second World War, Richman traveled to Nuremberg, Germany to participate in the Nuremberg trials of members and supporters of the Nazi regime. Richman served as a judge of Division IV of the American Military Tribunal.[1][2][3] Richman was one of the judges assigned to the Flick trial, with the defendants being prominent Nazi industrialists. The trial took nine months and resulted in three of the industrialists being found guilty and the other three being acquitted.[2][3]
Richman was a member of the Columbia Club in Indianapolis. He was a charter member and later President of the Rotary Club in Columbus. He was also a founder of both the Columbus Boys' Club and the Bartholomew County Historical Society. From 1922 to 1939, he was chairman of the Columbus chapter of the American Red Cross. He chaired the Indiana Judicial Council and was a member of the Bartholomew County Bar Association, the American Bar Association, and the American Judicature Society. He was also a member of Phi Delta Phi and the Order of the Coif. Richman's hobbies included fishing, traveling, and playing golf and contract bridge.[2][3]
In 1908, Richman married Edith Rogers. They married on Christmas Eve in Studley, Kansas, on the sheep ranch owned by Edith's parents. They had four children, one son and three daughters. All four children attended Indiana University.[3]
Richman died of colon cancer at his home in Indianapolis in 1956.[2][3][1]
Euxoa culminicola is a moth of the family Noctuidae. It is found in the Alps and Pyrenees in Austria, France, Italy, Spain and Switzerland.
Warren states E. culminicola Stgr. (6e). Like simplonia, but larger; the forewing pale fuscous suffused with pale yellow and roughly dusted; orbicular and reniform stigmata diffuse; hindwing with the base paler. Switzerland and the Tyrol.
[1] The wingspan is 39–43 mm.
Euxoa culminicola occurs only in a few places in the Alps and Pyrenees above the tree line at altitudes between 2000 and 3000 meters. 
way of life
There is species one generation per year, the moths fly in July and August. The moths are active during the day and at night. They have been observed nectar feeding during the day. The larvae live from September. They overwinter and pupate in May of the following year.

This Euxoa-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Tyler Ryan Russell (born December 6, 1990)[1] is an American football quarterback. He had played college football from 2010 to 2013 for Mississippi State University, where he placed fifth on the Bulldogs' career passing list with 5,441 passing yards, and third on the career passing touchdowns list with 42.
Russell attended Meridian High School, located in Meridian, Mississippi. As a senior in 2008, he led his team to the Mississippi 5A State Championship, where they snapped South Panola's 89-game winning streak dating back to 2003.[2] Russell was named 2008's Mr. Football by The Clarion-Ledger.[1] He was also named a Parade All-American.[3]
Russell was rated as a four-star recruit by 247sports.com,[4] Rivals.com,[5] and Scout.com.[6] He chose to attend Mississippi State over offers from Alabama and South Carolina.[1]
Russell redshirted in 2009. Mississippi State head coach Dan Mullen almost inserted him in the Bulldogs' loss to Houston but decided against it preserving Russell's eligibility.[7]
Russell appeared in 9 games in 2010, serving as the primary backup to quarterback Chris Relf. In his debut, he threw for 256 yards and a school record-tying 4 touchdown passes in a 49–7 rout of Memphis.[8] His performance even earned him one vote in ESPN's Heisman Watch list.[9] However, as the backup, he played sporadically over the season, only throwing for over 100 yards one more time, in a 49–16 defeat of Alcorn State.
Russell began the 2011 season again serving as Relf's backup and only appeared in two of the Bulldogs' first five games.[10] However, after the Bulldogs went into halftime down 3–0 to UAB, Russell played quarterback in the second half, throwing three touchdown passes and leading the Bulldogs to a 21–3 victory.[11] Russell played the entire game the next week, a 14–12 loss to South Carolina,[12] and split time with Relf over the rest of the season.
Russell won the starting job in 2012 and played the majority of snaps in all 13 games. The season saw the Bulldogs start out 7–0 before limping to an 8–5 finish. Russell threw for a career-high 295 yards in a loss at LSU[13] and again tied the school record with 4 touchdown passes in a 45–14 win over Arkansas.[14]
Over the 2012 season, Russell threw for 2,897 yards and 24 touchdowns, both of which were school records until Dak Prescott broke both in 2014.
Russell was named one of the captains for the Bulldogs' 2013 season.[15] He began the season as the starting quarterback, but left the opener against Oklahoma State after a concussion.[16] He was replaced by Dak Prescott and only played sporadically for most of the rest of the season, although he did start late-season games against Alabama[17] and Arkansas[18] after Prescott was sidelined with a shoulder injury. Russell left the Arkansas game after injuring his shoulder and did not appear in any more games during the season.
Russell was signed to the Winnipeg Blue Bombers practice roster on August 19, 2015.[19]
Events/Artifacts
(north to south)
Events/Artifacts
Artifacts
The cultural achievements of pre-colonial Philippines include those covered by the prehistory and the early history (900–1521) of the Philippine archipelago's inhabitants, the pre-colonial forebears of today's Filipino people. Among the cultural achievements of the native people's belief systems, and culture in general, that are notable in many ethnic societies, range from agriculture, societal and environmental concepts, spiritual beliefs, up to advances in technology, science, and the arts.
The following are the notable achievements of the natives of the pre-colonial archipelago between the 16th century to the 9th century, and most likely even farther. Many of the achievements have been lost or retrofitted due to more than three centuries of colonial rule beginning in the middle of the 16th century and ending in the middle of the 20th century.
Pre-colonial Philippine societies relied more on swidden agriculture than intensive permanent agriculture. For example, in pre-colonial Visayas, the staple crops such as rice, millet, bananas and root crops were grown in swiddens (kaingin).[24] While rice was highly valued and was the preferred food, the most common food all year round were actually root crops, and in some areas the only available crop for most of the year were root crops such as taro and yam. The historian William Henry Scott also noted that pre-colonial Visayan farmers neither knew the plow nor the carabao before the arrival of the Spaniards while the anthropologist Robert B. Fox described the Mangyans of Mindoro as sedentary agriculturalists who farm without the plow and the carabao. In fact, it is well known among historians that the plow technology and the harnessing of the domesticated carabao for plowing were introduced and disseminated by the Spanish friars to finance the colonial enterprise, a fact which is often elided in most Philippine nationalist histories.[25][26] Similarly, the building of the rice terraces of the Cordilleras started around 1650 and coincided with the arrival of the Spaniards in northern Luzon; this notion is supported by archeological evidence collected from five major sites (Old Kiangan Village, Hapao, Nagacadan, Batad, and Banaue) by the Ifugao Archeological Project,[27] thus falsifying the previously accepted notion that the rice terraces of the Philippine Cordilleras have a 2000-year-old origin. The anthropologist Stephen Acabado noted that the adoption of wet-rice agriculture in the Cordillera highlands and the subsequent landscape modification for terraced wet-rice cultivation were part of the strategy of resistance of the highlanders from the Spanish conquest, as the modified landscape served as zones of refuge.[28]
William Henry Scott also noted that the swiddening techniques employed by the pre-colonial Visayans were not destructive, as evidenced by the fact that most of the Visayan settlements around that time were permanent. The people did not see the need to resort to cutting into virgin woodland each time but due to the balance between the population and the available land available to them, reuse of previously abandoned swidden areas which underwent forest regeneration was possible.[29]
The most intimate weapon wielded by pre-colonial inhabitants of the Philippines was the balaraw, a dagger with a double-edged leaf-shaped blade and a cross-shaped hilt which at times was used as a protection against wrist cuts.[30] They are typically 20-25 centimeters long, although there were smaller versions given to youngsters since even a boy felt naked without one.[31]
Pre-colonial Filipinos use two kinds of swords for combat, the kris and the kampilan. The kris (also called in Visayan as kalis) is a double-edged blade, which can be either completely straight (called sundang) or completely wavy (called kiwo-kiwo).[32] The kris blades were forged from layers of different grades of steel, which gave them a damascened appearance.[33] The Visayan kris was considered inferior compared to those from Mindanao and Sulu, and these in turn were less esteemed compared to the imports from Makassar and Borneo.[34] The blade of the kampilan on the other hand is long and straight with a single edge which widens to a dual point. Like the kris, it was coated with poison before combat and the propagated fiction that an arcane alchemy was used to render the kampilan blade poisonous certainly increased its market value.[35] The kampilan was never manufactured by the Visayan smiths but imported from Mindanao.[36] Those with access to foreign imports also possessed Japanese swords (or katana) as weapon of war.
For protection, they wielded padded armor and carabao-hide breastplates, and long narrow shields called kalasag, or round bucklers called palisay. People who had access to foreign imports may also possess the Chinese peaked helmet, also called kupya or tangkulog in Tagalog.
The Bornean arquebus called astinggal (etymologically derived from Malay istinggar, ultimately from Portuguese espingarda[37]) was also known by the pre-colonial Filipinos, however the Spaniards never faced any in their encounters in Luzon as they did in Mindanao.[38] Such arquebusses on the other hand, did appear in Palawan through contacts with Borneo, as recorded by Antonio Pigafetta.[39]
While historical and archeological evidences suggest that the pre-colonial inhabitants of the Philippines were a metal-using people, they did not possess the metallurgical knowledge of locally forging war cannons.[40] The archeological researcher Eusebio Dizon noted that the pre-colonial Filipinos were capable of forging the small cannons, called lantakas, although they are not used for warfare but as ornaments for interior decoration. As far as current archeological data is concerned, pre-colonial Filipinos were not capable of founding the heavy European-style cannons used in sixteenth-century warfare.[41] Despite this, lantakas did find a place in Philippine warfare, as witnessed for example by the soldiers of Juan de Salcedo during the conquest of Luzon.[42]
Early chroniclers, who came during the first Spanish expeditions to the islands noted the proficiency of some of the natives, especially the chieftain and local kings, in Sanskrit, Old Javanese, Old Malay, and several other languages.[43][44][45] A Jesuit priest wrote in 1604 that "So accustomed are all these islanders to writing and reading that there is scarcely a man, and much less a woman, who cannot read and write in the letters proper to [Luzon]". A Spanish magistrate wrote in 1609: "Throughout the islands the natives write very well using [their letters]... All the natives, women as well as men, write in this language, and there are very few who do not write well and correctly".[46]
Indigenous people of the Philippines, being descendants of the balangay-borne Austronesian migrants from Maritime Southeast Asia,[48] were known for their navigational skills. Some of them used compasses similar to those used among maritime communities of Borneo and traders of China, although most had no need for such devices. In modern times, some fishermen and traders in the Visayas, Mindanao, Sulu and Palawan are still able to navigate long distances over open water without the use of modern navigational instruments.[49][unreliable source?] Philippine ships, such as the karakao or korkoa were of excellent quality and some of them were used by the Spaniards in expeditions against rebellious tribes and Dutch and British forces. Some of the larger rowed vessels held up to a hundred rowers on each side besides a contingent of armed troops.[44] Generally, the larger vessels held at least one lantaka at the front of the vessel or another one placed at the stern.[49] Philippine sailing ships called praos had double sails that seemed to rise well over a hundred feet from the surface of the water. Despite their large size, these ships had double outriggers. Some of the larger sailing ships, however, did not have outriggers.
Communities of the ancient Philippines were active in international trade, and they used the ocean as natural highways.[44] Ancient peoples were engaged in long-range trading with their Asian neighbors as far as west as Maldives and as far as north as Japan.[49] Some historians proposed that they also had regular contacts with the people of Western Micronesia due to it being the only area in the Oceania that had rice crops, tuba (fermented coconut sap), and a tradition of betel nut chewing when the first Europeans arrived there. The uncanny resemblance of complex body tattoos among the Visayans and those of Borneo also suggest some connection between Borneo and ancient Philippines.[49] Magellan's chronicler, Antonio Pigafetta, mentioned that merchants and ambassadors from all surrounding areas came to pay tribute to the king of Sugbu (Cebu) for the purpose of trade. While Magellan's crew were with the king, a representative from Siam was paying tribute to the king.[49] Miguel López de Legazpi also wrote how merchants from Luzon and Mindoro had come to Cebu for trade, and he also mentioned how Chinese merchants regularly came to Luzon for the same purpose.[49] People from the region enjoyed extensive trade contacts and immigration with other cultures, such as Indians, Arabs, Koreans, Japanese, Vietnamese, Cambodians, Thais, Malaysians, and Indonesians.[50][51]
Aside from trade relations, Indigenous Filipinos were also involved in aquaculture and fishing. The natives made use of the salambao, which is a type of raft that utilizes a large fishing net which is lowered into the water via a type of lever made of two criss-crossed poles. Night fishing was accomplished with the help of candles made from a particular type of resin similar to the copal of Mexico. Use of safe pens for incubation and protection of small fry from predators was also observed, a method that interested the Spaniards at that time.[49]
Mining in the Philippines began around 1000 BC. Early Filipinos worked in various mines containing gold, silver, copper and iron. Jewels, gold ingots, chains, bangles, calombigas and earrings were handed down from their ancestors and passed from generation to generation.
The extensive use of gold during early Philippine history is well-documented, both in the archeological record and in the various written accounts from precolonial and early Spanish colonial times.[55] Among the most prominent of these portrayals was that of the Boxer Codex (c. 1590), which portrayed members of the elite from various peoples in the Visayas and Luzon.[56] Gold was used for various decorative and ceremonial items, as clothing, and also as currency.[57]
Gold was readily available throughout the Philippine archipelago,[58]: 309  and gold items were valued as symbols of power and markers of elite status,[58]: 299  although studies of grave artifacts suggest that these items were not as valued in precolonial Philippines as traded ornaments were.[58]: 308  Gold was plentiful enough that local elites did not feel the need to acquire large amounts of it, and only sought it as the need arose, by trading with settlements which produced it through low intensity mining.[58]: 309 
Gold dagger handles, gold dishes, tooth plating, and huge gold ornaments were also used.[49] Death masks made of gold dating back to precolonial times have also been discovered in the Philippines.[59] In Laszlo Legeza's "Tantric elements in pre-Hispanic Philippines Gold Art", it is mentioned that gold jewelry of Filipino origin was found in Ancient Egypt.[49] According to Antonio Pigafetta, the people of Mindoro were skilled in mixing gold with other metals, giving it a natural appearance that often deceived even skilled silversmiths.[49]
Among the most prominent sites for gold mining in early Philippine history were Aringay-Tonglo-Balatok gold trail covering the Cordillera Mountain Range and the Lingayen gulf towns of Agoo and Aringay;[60] the mines of Paracale on the Bicol Peninsula which were a major source of gold for the trading centers of the Visayan islands, particularly Panay and Cebu;[61][62] and the Butuan-Surigao area, particularly along the Agusan river on the island of Mindanao, which made the Butuan polity an important trading center.[63]
Indigenous Filipinos were also known for the jewelry made of other precious stones such as carnelian, agate and pearl. Some notable examples of Filipino jewelry include necklaces, bangles, belts, armlets and rings placed around the waist.
The ancient people of the Philippines had a rich tradition of pottery as verified by the finds at Ayub Cave in South Cotabato and other parts of the islands. Japanese texts mentioned trading expeditions to the island of Rusun (Luzon) for the highly prized Rusun and Namban jars of the area. Japanese texts were very specific about these jars being made in Luzon. The Tokiko, for example, referred to the Rusun and Namban jars as Ru-sun tsukuru or Lu-sung ch'i (in Chinese), which mean simply "made in Luzon."[49] These Rusun jars, which had rokuru (wheel mark), were said to be more precious than gold because of their ability to act as tea canisters and enhance the fermentation process.[49]
Pottery in the Philippines have different usage, depending on its cultural inclinations. Some potteries are used for food and beverages, while others are used for burials and religious ceremonies.[64][65][66]
Indigenous textiles and accessories are extremely varied in the Philippines. The traditions concerning textiles and accessories have centuries of practices honed by different ethnic societies.[67]
Shells, gold, beads, jade, silver, brass, copper, horns, bills, and many other materials have used in multiple accessories throughout the archipelago. Both gold and jade were one of the most prized, although ceremonial accessories were also very important.[63][68][69]
The oldest surviving textile in the entire Southeast Asian region was found in the Philippine island of Banton in Romblon province. The cloth, known as the Banton cloth, has designs with folkloric motifs, and was used as a death wrap.[70]
Examples of various textile types in the Philippines are the brocaded weave (pinilian) of the Ilocano, the wavy designs of the Bontoc, the geometric designs of the Kalinga, the piña of the Aklanon, the hablon of the Kiniray-a and Hiligaynon, the seputangan of the Yakan, the mabal tabih of the Blaan, the bagobo inabal of the Bagobo Manobo, the dagmay of the Mandaya, the mëranaw of the Maranao, the pis syabit of the Tausug, and the t'nala of the T'boli.[67]
In pre-colonial Philippines, both men and women enjoyed the same rights and privileges.[20] Women, like men, can ascend the headship of families, villages, and cities.[71] Women can also ascend the throne of a nation. In some cases, some queens have ascended as sole ruler, superior to her consort.[72][73][74]
Additionally, children and elders were given the same respect,[20] as children were also noted as capable of things that an elder can do if given the proper training. Unwed mothers or fathers were not shamed,[20] as many of their gods and goddesses were the same.[20] Divorce was also practiced, and was highly accepted. Both women and men can initiate a divorce.[75][20][76]
The major aim of a Tagalog marriage was to provide the wife with a groom rather than a groom with a wife. In other words, Tagalog society was organized for women, men being necessary accessories.[77] Virginity was considered by pre-colonial Filipinos as an impediment to marriage.[78] The blood shed during the deflowering of a young woman was considered to be an impurity, so when a girl reaches her nubile years, a specialist in charge of deflowering was hired. According to Potet (2017) the man in charge of the operation may have also worn protective amulets to protect his penis from blood impurity. The term panatin was used to refer to the pre-colonial ceremonies marking the nubility of the woman and was also used as a term to refer to the deflowering process itself.[79]
The practice of abortion and infanticide was widespread in pre-colonial Visayas, as it was considered a disgrace to raise a large family, presumably because having many children usually result to poverty. Abortions were carried out for unmarried women in pre-colonial Visayan society.[80] In pre-colonial Tagalog society, infanticide was also routinely practiced for children born to unmarried women, however it does not appear to have been as widespread as in the Visayas.[81] Infanticide through burying the child alive was also a practice in Pangasinan during the pre-colonial and early Spanish colonial period and it was carried out when a family didn't want or couldn't support the child.[82] Unlike Visayans, the ancient Tagalogs prefer to raise large families, as evidenced by the numerous superstitions that encouraged fertility and the survival of infants.[83]
After marriage, women did not lose their name.[20] In fact, if a woman was especially distinguished, either from her own merit or her family's merit, her husband usually took her name as she was seen as far superior to her husband.[20] During this time, women and feminized men were also given high distinction as many of which took on the role of shamans (such as Philippine shamans), who also took on the role as interim head[20] of the domain every time a datu, a male or female ruler,[84] is absent or goes into a journey.[20]
Spring Garden-Terra Verde is a census-designated place (CDP) in Nueces County, Texas, United States. The population was 693 at the 2000 census.
Spring Garden-Terra Verde CDP split into the Spring Gardens CDP and the Tierra Grande CDP for the 2010 census.[2]
Spring Garden-Terra Verde is located at 27°45′42″N 97°43′32″W﻿ / ﻿27.76167°N 97.72556°W﻿ / 27.76167; -97.72556 (27.761568, -97.725473).[3]
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 3.0 square miles (7.8 km2), all land.
As of the census[1] of 2000, there were 693 people, 178 households, and 155 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 228.7 inhabitants per square mile (88.3/km2). There were 211 housing units at an average density of 69.6 per square mile (26.9/km2). The racial makeup of the CDP was 68.25% White, 0.43% African American, 0.72% Native American, 28.43% from other races, and 2.16% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 97.11% of the population.
There were 178 households, out of which 57.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 66.9% were married couples living together, 13.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 12.4% were non-families. 11.2% of all households were made up of individuals, and 5.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.89 and the average family size was 4.20.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 40.8% under the age of 18, 11.3% from 18 to 24, 29.0% from 25 to 44, 13.4% from 45 to 64, and 5.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 23 years. For every 100 females, there were 111.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 102.0 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $17,188, and the median income for a family was $17,396. Males had a median income of $22,574 versus $14,444 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $5,223. About 56.6% of families and 68.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 78.6% of those under age 18 and none of those age 65 or over.
Spring Garden-Terra Verde is served by the Robstown Independent School District.
Peter Ehle House is a historic home located at Nelliston in Montgomery County, New York.  It was built about 1826 and is a rectangular, two story stone building with a gable roof and inside end chimneys in the Late Federal style.  Also on the property is a large barn complex including a large frame barn, two carriage houses, and a small stone outbuilding.  Remains of a large part stone barn are also present.[2]
It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.[1]

This article about a historic property or district in Montgomery County, New York, that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Elwood Jr/Sr High School is a public high school located in Elwood, Indiana.
The demographic breakdown of the 658 students enrolled in the 2014–2015 school year was:
63.3% of the students were eligible for free or reduced price lunch, making this a Title I school.[2]
The Elwood Panthers compete in the Central Indiana Conference.  The school colors are red and royal blue.  The following IHSAA sanctioned sports are offered:[3]


This Indiana school-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Prairie Creek is a stream in the U.S. state of Iowa.[1] It is a tributary to the Iowa River.
Prairie Creek was descriptively named for the prairie along its course.[2]
41°25′34″N 91°28′18″W﻿ / ﻿41.42611°N 91.47167°W﻿ / 41.42611; -91.47167

This article related to a river in Iowa is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Revenge of the Vinyl Cafe (2012) is Stuart McLean's fifth book of stories that first aired on the CBC Radio program The Vinyl Cafe.  It debuted at #1 in The Globe and Mail’s bestseller list.[1]  It is the only book in the Vinyl Cafe series to have its own theme music, selected by CBC Radio listeners and written by Ottawa band The PepTides [2]
Stories included in Revenge of the Vinyl Cafe:[3]

This article about a collection of short stories published in the 2010s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Toyota Sera (model designation EXY10) is a 3-door 2+2 hatchback coupe manufactured and marketed by Toyota from 1990 to 1996. It was only officially sold in Japan.
The Sera debuted in 1988 as the Toyota AXV-II concept car in a near production-ready form, and is noted for its mostly glass roof canopy and its butterfly doors, which tilt up and forward when open. Just a year later, at the 1989 Tokyo Motor Show, the production-version Sera was presented. A vertically-positioned and electrically-automated model was also shown to demonstrate the butterfly doors and rear hatch in action.
Released in a single engine configuration and body style, the Sera featured optional configurations for its transmission, brakes, cold climate and sound-system. Toyota marketed three trim versions, marketed as Phases, over its production and marketed the Sera exclusively in Japanese Toyota retail sales channels Toyota Corolla Store — as an alternative to the Toyota MR2, which was exclusive to Toyota Vista Store.
A total of 15,941 were built between February 1990 and December 1995.[1] 15,852 units were registered in Japan.    Approx. 30 pre-production cars were used for development purposes.
The Sera came with the 1.5 L (1496 cc) inline 4 5E-FHE unleaded petrol engine, the largest capacity version of Toyota's E series of engines included in the Paseo and the Starlet. It produced 78 kW (104 hp) and 132 N⋅m (97 lb⋅ft) of torque. This was installed in a front-mount, front wheel drive transverse configuration with electronic fuel injection. All versions came with power assisted rack and pinion steering and either the Toyota A242L 4-speed automatic or the Toyota C155 5-speed manual transmission. The brakes were vented discs at the front and drums at the rear, unless fitted with the optional Anti-Lock Braking system which had vented discs all round.
Mechanically the car is related to both the Paseo and the Starlet, sharing similar floorpans, suspension, steering and brakes.
The Toyota Sera is a 3-door hatchback coupe of monocoque steel construction. The Sera's butterfly doors are hinged at the top center of the windscreen, and bottom of the A pillar and open forward and up in a manner similar to the McLaren F1 and Saleen S7 - the McLaren F1 designer Gordon Murray cited the Sera as the inspiration of the F1's door arrangement.[2] The weight of each door is primarily supported by a thick gas strut and counterbalanced by a smaller secondary strut inside the door.
Unlike conventional hinged side-opening doors, the butterfly doors can be opened fully in a fairly confined space, requiring only 43 cm (17 in) of lateral clearance. The Sera features windows that curve upward into the 'glass roof' section of the vehicle.
The rear hatch is constructed of a single piece of glass without a supporting steel frame. This, in combination with a steeply sloping front windscreen and glass upper-door/roof panels (a total of six separate glass pieces overall), gives the Sera its distinctive canopy and provides expansive visibility, although the thick B-pillar create a significant blind spot, especially on the driver's side. To deal with its high solar load, air-conditioning and twin removable interior roof panels are standard.
Front bucket seats feature three point seatbelts and can tilt and slide forward to give access to the rear.  The rear bench seat features a fixed central arm rest and either two or three point seatbelts.
In its normal interior configuration (with the back seats up and the parcel shelf in place) the rear cargo area does have a noticeably small opening (52 cm by 82 cm) and an elevated lip necessitating the lifting of luggage quite high before it can be placed inside. However the boot (trunk) is relatively deep and spacious. In addition the rear seats fold down and both the parcel shelf and the rear divider panel (usually in place behind the back seats) can be completely removed, in essence turning the entire rear half of the car into a cargo area. As such the Toyota Sera has a large amount of available storage space for its size. The space-saving spare tire and changing kit are contained in a small compartment below the boot floor.
The Sera/EXY-10 was one of the first cars to feature projector headlights (though the 1988 AXV-II concept model featured conventional headlights).
Toyota produced the Sera in three distinct trim variants, with either manual or automatic transmission, standard or ABS brakes and regular stereo or Super-Live Sound System ("SLSS") forming the three major choices for buyers. There were also a large number of additional factory options available across the entire production run.
The initial build and the majority of the Sera's total production (around 12,000 of the 15,852 or so cars produced) featured:
Around 2,300 cars of this second trim were produced featuring:
1,550 of the final version of the Sera were manufactured, featuring:
Macedonian Airlines (Greek: Mακεδονικές Αερογραμμές, transliterated Makedonikes Aerogrammes) was a subsidiary of Olympic Airways, the former national flag carrier of Greece. The company ceased operations in 2003, when it took over the operations of Olympic Airways and was renamed Olympic Airlines.
After the privatization of Olympic Airways and the formation of Olympic Air, it was announced by the new CEO Andreas Vgenopoulos that a subsidiary of the company will be established in Northern Greece bearing the name Macedonian Airlines.[2] However, there have been no more official announcements about this to date.
Macedonian Airlines was created in 1992 as the charter subsidiary of the Greek national airline, Olympic Airways. The Olympic Airways management board decided to rename the charter subsidiary of the Group, Olympic AirTours in 1992, and the Macedonian Airlines brand name was created. The company had nothing to do with MAT Macedonian Airlines, which was founded two years later, in 1994, in neighbouring Republic of North Macedonia.
Macedonian followed the trails of its predecessor, Olympic AirTours, mainly for vacation planning until 1998. This year the airline acquired two B727-200 from Olympic Airways. Starting with these aircraft, Macedonian offered charter flights of the Greek islands and the mainland abroad European. The society had reached agreements with different large tour operators. One year later, in 1999, the airline used new aircraft, by leasing two B737-400 to replace the already aged Boeing 727s. Since the company was an Olympic Airways subsidiary, all maintenance and handling were operated by the parent company, Olympic Airways.
Until 2003, Macedonian's fleet was also used on OA scheduled services, especially after the older Boeing 737-200s were phased out. In July 2003, the company leased two McDonnell Douglas MD-82 that also used on charter flights. On 12 December 2003, due to the mounting problems of the Olympic Airways Group, a restructuring plan was formed. Macedonian Airlines was separated from the Group, renamed Olympic Airlines and took over all the data and flight operations of Olympic Airways (including the IATA and ICAO codes).
On 1 October 2009, speaking after Olympic Air΄s inaugural flight in Thessaloniki, MIG΄s CEO Andreas Vgenopoulos said that Olympic Air will relaunch in the near future Macedonian Airlines. Mr. Vgenopoulos mentioned that Olympic Air holds the exclusive rights to the Macedonian Airlines brand name. Mr. Vgenopoulos said that Macedonian Airlines would be up-and-running in the coming two or three months while its first routes would include Germany and Amsterdam. There have been no more official announcements about this up until now.
Mahlon Brewster Smith (June 26, 1919 – August 4, 2012) was an American psychologist and past president of the American Psychological Association. His career included faculty appointments at Vassar College, New York University, University of California, Berkeley, University of Chicago and University of California, Santa Cruz. Smith had been briefly involved with the Young Communist League as a student at Reed College in the 1930s, which resulted in a subpoena by the U.S. Senate in the 1950s. That activity caused him to be blacklisted by the National Institute of Mental Health for ten years without his knowledge.
Smith testified against segregation in schools as an expert witness in the Brown v. Board of Education case; the scope and scientific basis for Smith's testimony have been the subjects of controversy. He was the vice president of the Joint Commission on Mental Illness and Health, the group whose recommendations led to the deinstitutionalization of most of the mentally ill in the United States. In 1961, he helped to interview and select the first group of Peace Corps volunteers.
Smith authored several notable works in social psychology, and a collection of his works was published in 2003. He was editor of two major psychological journals and was the recipient of numerous awards, including the Kurt Lewin Award from the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues and the APA Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychology in the Public Interest. Smith died in 2012 after a brief illness.
Mahlon Brewster Smith was born on June 26, 1919, in Syracuse, New York. When he was a child, his family moved to Oregon after his father became a dean at Oregon State University.[1] Smith enrolled at Reed College at the age of 16 and attended for two years. He earned undergraduate and master's degrees from Stanford University, then started a doctoral program at Harvard University before being drafted into the U.S. Army.
In the military, Smith tested and interviewed personnel, earning a Bronze Star and being promoted to major. Smith's experiences during World War II inspired his future involvement in a movement known as peace psychology.[2] He returned to Harvard and finished graduate school in 1947.[1]
After graduation from Harvard, Smith was a professor and department chair at Vassar College. He then worked for the Social Science Research Council for several years. Between 1956 and 1959, Smith taught at New York University and headed the psychology graduate program. He moved to the University of California, Berkeley. In 1961, he interviewed and helped to select the first group of Peace Corps volunteers; he traveled to Ghana to visit them multiple times.[2]
Smith directed Berkeley's Institute of Human Development from 1965 to 1968. After serving as department head at the University of Chicago for two years, Smith came to the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1970. He was dean of social sciences for five years, then was a professor of psychology until his retirement in 1988. At UC Santa Cruz, he influenced a focus on social justice in the social psychology program.[2]
In the 1950s, Smith was subpoenaed to appear before a U.S. Senate committee on Communist activities. While Smith was enrolled at Reed College in the mid-1930s, he had become involved with the Young Communist League. He ceased his involvement with the organization in the late 1930s, but he later found out that he had been on a National Institute of Mental Health blacklist for ten years.[1]
Smith served as president of the American Psychological Association (APA). He also led or founded several APA sections, including the Division on Humanistic Psychology, the Division on Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology, the Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues (SPSSI) and the Society for the Study of Peace, Conflict and Violence. Smith served stints as editor for the Journal of Social Issues and the Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology. He was the president of Psychologists for Social Responsibility for the two years before his retirement.[3]
In 1954, Smith provided expert testimony in Brown v. Board of Education which characterized segregation as "inherently an insult to the integrity of the individual".[4] Smith was one of several social scientists who testified in favor of integration during the four trials that were combined into Brown. Henry Garrett, a former APA president and professor at Columbia University, was the only psychologist who testified for the state. He characterized Smith's testimony as naïve and said that psychologists like Smith had stepped outside of social science when testifying on the effects of segregation.[4]
The testimony of Smith and his colleagues has been the subject of ongoing controversy. University of Colorado professor John P. Jackson Jr. writes, "Within 40 years, what was once viewed as psychology’s greatest achievement in social engineering has been proclaimed a miserable failure. The psychologists involved in Brown are often viewed as liberal reformers who masked their political wishes in the guise of social science."[4]
Historian James T. Patterson says that the evidence for their testimony was "dubious and subject to different interpretations... The fact of the matter was that in 1954 there simply did not exist sufficient research that could 'prove' whether any particular racial mix in schools was superior – or in what ways – to any other."[5] Jackson argues that segregationist writers of the time "succeeded in framing the issues in a manner that put the actions of the social scientists in the worst possible light."[4]
Smith was the vice president of the Joint Commission on Mental Illness and Health, an independent organization created by the United States Congress in 1955 to study the care of the nation's mentally ill. The group's final report is thought to have influenced legislation that led to the deinstitutionalization of the American mentally ill.[6] The report, Action for Mental Health (1961), advocated for community-based mental health care. It recommended that no mental hospitals should be constructed with more than 1,000 beds and that existing hospitals of greater than 1,000 beds should be converted to centers treating chronic physical and mental conditions.[7]
By the 1980s, the group's report was criticized for leading to deinstitutionalization in large numbers without establishing sufficient community resources for the mentally ill and for the subsequent overreliance on psychiatric drugs. Charles Schlaifer, a member of the group, said that he later became frustrated because "tranquilizers became the panacea for the mentally ill... Local mental health centers were going to be the greatest thing going, but no one wanted to think it through."[6] Smith admitted that "extravagant claims were made for the benefits of shifting from state hospitals to community clinics. The professional community made mistakes and was overly optimistic, but the political community wanted to save money."[6]
Smith received the 1986 Kurt Lewin Award from SPSSI; the award recognizes "outstanding contributions to the development and integration of psychological research and social action".[8] In 1988, he received the APA Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychology in the Public Interest. Smith was active in social psychology even after his retirement from UC Santa Cruz.[1]
The Western Psychological Association awarded Smith its first Lifetime Service Award in 1996. In 2003, he published For a Significant Social Psychology: The Collected Writings of M. Brewster Smith. In 2006, SPSSI recognized him again with its Award for Distinguished Theoretical and Philosophical Contributions to Psychology. He died in Santa Cruz on August 4, 2012, after a brief hospital stay.[1]
Zhusang (Mandarin: 祝桑乡) is a township in Yajiang County, Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Sichuan, China. In 2010, Zhusang Township had a total population of 3,383: 1,768 males and 1,615 females: 806 aged under 14, 2,362 aged between 15 and 65 and 215 aged over 65.[1]

This Sichuan location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Job 29 is the 29th chapter of the Book of Job in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament of the Christian Bible.[1][2] The book is anonymous; most scholars believe it was written around 6th century BCE.[3][4] This chapter records the speech of Job, which belongs to the Dialogue section of the book, comprising Job 3:1–31:40.[5][6]
The original text is written in Hebrew language. This chapter is divided into 25 verses.
Some early manuscripts containing the text of this chapter in Hebrew are of the Masoretic Text, which includes the Aleppo Codex (10th century), and Codex Leningradensis (1008).[7]
There is also a translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint, made in the last few centuries BC; some extant ancient manuscripts of this version include Codex Vaticanus (B; 





G




{\displaystyle {\mathfrak {G}}}

B; 4th century), Codex Sinaiticus (S; BHK: 





G




{\displaystyle {\mathfrak {G}}}

S; 4th century), and Codex Alexandrinus (A; 





G




{\displaystyle {\mathfrak {G}}}

A; 5th century).[8]
The structure of the book is as follows:[9]
Within the structure, chapter 29 is grouped into the Dialogue section with the following outline:[10]
The Dialogue section is composed in the format of poetry with distinctive syntax and grammar.[5] At the end of the Dialogue, Job sums up his speech in a comprehensive review (chapters 29–31), with Job 29 describes Job's former prosperity, Job 30 focuses on Job's current suffering and Job 31 outlines Job's final defense.[11] The whole part is framed by Job's longing for a restored relationship with God (Job 29:2) and the legal challenge to God (Job 31:35–27).[11] Chapter 29 begins with the description of Job's former experience of his relationship with God in his family and personal circumstances (verses 2–6), then his former honorable place in the community (verses 7–10) as he actively worked for justice (verses 11–17), followed by the section comprising verses 18–20 that shows Job's expectation of ongoing peace, then closed by a summary of Job's former prominence as a respected leader in the community.[12]
The section starts with Job reminiscing "the day when God watched over me", which he puts before his own prosperity (verse 2), before his full family (verse 5) or abundant materials (verse 6), so it is Job's friendship with God that Job desperately misses.[13] Before his suffering, Job assumed a respected public profile (verse 7) with people young and old acknowledging his wisdom (verse 8) that even "princes" and "nobles" stop speaking as soon as Job started to speak (verse 9–10).[14] There is a list of Job's just actions in the community, especially towards the poor and marginalized (verses 12–16), depicting him as the wise ruler of Proverbs (Proverbs 28:4–6. 15–16; 31:4–5).[15] Job describes his expectation in his former life of a peaceful and fulfilling situation (verses 18.–20).[15]
This section rounds up Job's summary of his former life, picking up some concepts in verses 7–10, mainly about his position in the community.[20] Job's advice was very respected that it usually becomes the outcome of ending discussion, described as "final and life-giving".[20]  However, Job also involves in the lives of others, acting in genuine care for the people.[20]
Job's final recollection of his past is how he was deeply loved and well-respected just like a king, who comforts mourning people, a stark contrast to the treatment of his friends to him now when he was mourning.[22]
Colonel Moreton John Wheatley CB (2 March 1837 – 13 May 1916[1]) was a British Army officer who was Bailiff of the Royal Parks from 1879 to 1902.
Wheatley was born in 1837, the elder son of Thomas Randall Wheatley (c. 1799–1879) and Eliza Wheatley, of Gwersyllt park, Denbighshire.[1] His father had served in the Madras Civil Service, but was from a military family, the son of Major-General William Wheatley, of the Grenadier Guards. Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Robertson Eliott Wheatley (1851–1913), of the Royal Artillery (Madras), and Lieutenant-Colonel W. F. Wheatley were younger brothers.
He entered the army as a second-lieutenant in the Royal Engineers on 20 December 1854, and was promoted to lieutenant the following month, on 13 January 1855. In 1856 he served in the Crimean War. Following appointment as adjutant on the staff of the Royal Engineers establishment at Chatham,[2] he was promoted to captain on 18 December 1861. He received the brevet rank of major before 1864, was promoted to the substantive rank of major on 5 July 1872, and lieutenant-colonel on 12 October 1879. Following promotion to colonel on 12 October 1883, he retired from active service in 1885.[3][4]
He was appointed Bailiff of the Royal Parks in 1879, and served as such until he retired on reaching the age limit in March 1902.[5] The Bailiff of the Royal Parks was responsible for the overall management of the Royal Parks of London, lands originally owned by the monarchy and officially designated public parks with the introduction of the Crown lands Act 1851. Among other duties, he was in charge of the keepers and civil officers in the parks, and he lived in a house inside Hyde Park.[6]
Shortly before his retirement as Bailiff, he was appointed a Companion (civil) of the Order of the Bath (CB) in the November 1901 Birthday Honours list,[7] and invested by King Edward VII on 17 December 1901.[8]
He lived at Gwersyllt in Denbighshire, and died on 13 May 1916.[9]
Wheatley married, in 1864, Edith Frances Millett, younger daughter of Charles Millett, of Maiden Erlegh, Berkshire. They had three sons and one daughter,[1] including:
Celtic field is an old name for traces of early (prehistoric) agricultural field systems found in North-West Europe, i.e. Britain, Ireland, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, France, Sweden, Poland and the Baltic states. The fields themselves are not related to the Celtic culture.[1]
The name was given by O. G. S. Crawford. They are sometimes preserved in areas where industrial farming has not been adopted and can date from any time from the Early Bronze Age (c. 1800 BC) until the early medieval period. They can be preserved as earthworks or soil marks.
They are characterised by their proximity to other ancient features such as enclosures, sunken lanes and farmsteads and are divided into a patchwork quilt of square plots rarely more than 2,000 m2 (0.49 acres) in area although larger examples are known (e.g. Dorset and Wiltshire). Their small size (35–50 m; 40–55 yd) implies that each was cultivated by a single person or household.
Lynchets, evidence of early ploughing can often be seen at the upper and lower ends. Large scale Roman agriculture replaced them in lowland Britain and they are more common in less accessible regions such as the West Country.

This article relating to archaeology in Europe is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This agriculture article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Indexes of individual years in Wales.
2020s - 2010s - 2000s - 1990s - 1980s - 1970s - 1960s - 1950s - 1940s - 1930s - 1920s - 1910s - 1900s - 1890s - 1880s - 1870s - 1860s - 1850s - 1840s - 1830s - 1820s - 1810s - 1800s - 1790s - 1780s - 1770s - 1760s - 1750s - 1740s - 1730s - 1720s - 1710s - Pre-1710
Thermodesulfobium  is a Gram-negative, strictly anaerobic, moderately thermophilic, non-spore-forming and non-motile genus of bacteria from the family of Thermodesulfobiaceae.[1][2][3][4][5][6]
This Bacillota-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Glaciecola psychrophila[2]
Paraglaciecola psychrophila is a Gram-negative, psychrophilic and motile bacterium from the genus of Paraglaciecola which has been isolated from the Arctic.[2][1][3][4]

This Alteromonadales article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Duke (Nduke, pronounced N-doo-kay) is an Oceanic language now spoken by about 3,000 people on Kolombangara island, Solomon Islands. Duke is an exonymic name (not used by speakers themselves). Endonymic names (used by the speakers themselves) are Dughore (Ndughore) and Kolei. Dughore is also a name for an area in southwest Kolombangara, Kolei is the general bilateral address term specific to Nduke. A more recent alternative name is 'Kolombangara' (after the name of the island).
Oral history in Dughore recounts that the northwest, northeast and southeast of Kolombangara had their own languages, which became extinct when the people of those areas were annihilated in warfare that probably occurred in the early 19th century. The people of the southwest built a series of hill fortresses and survived. At the beginning of the colonial period (about 1900), Duke had about 250 speakers, all concentrated in the southwest.[2]
Inter-island exchange with neighbouring island language areas of Vella Lavella, Simbo and Roviana was strong in the latter 19th century, possibly leading to some language borrowing, although marriage remained largely endogamous at that time. In the early twentieth century, colonial rule instituted Roviana as a lingua franca, and the Seventh-day Adventist church, which was widely adopted on Kolombangara, used Bible materials written in Marovo. By the mid-twentieth century marriages to Marovo became numerous and many households are bilingual Duke–Marovo. Roviana, although it ceased to be a regional lingua franca in the 1960s, is still widely understood by Duke speakers. Twentieth-century borrowing from Roviana and Marovo has occurred to a small extent.
From the 1960s onward many marriages have taken place across the wider Solomons, leading to mixed-language communities, at the same time that Solomon Pijin has risen to prominence as a national language. As a result, Pijin is a widely used household language on Kolombangara, which in some families has almost fully replaced Duke. Additionally, re-orientation of the economy away from the traditional Oceanic lifestyle has led to less reliance on traditional ecological knowledge and traditional technology, so that many specialist terms have largely been forgotten. The lexical richness of the language is now markedly less among speakers under 40 years old. Ethnologue rates the language as 'vigorous'.[3]
Orthography refers to the spelling system used to write words down. The Nduke alphabet is based on the Latin alphabet. The first systematic orthography was used by A. M. Hocart in 1908 to document a Nduke wordlist and Nduke anthropological fieldnotes. These sources were never published and did not form the basis for later orthographies. Two variant orthographies arose in local use, based on that used by the Methodist mission for Roviana, and that used by the Seventh-day Adventist mission for Marovo. These missions arrived in Nduke in 1917 and 1919 respectively. Recent lexical work on Nduke has used a composite of these two orthographies to avoid ambiguity.[4]
There are five diphthongs: /ei/, /ai/, /ae/, /au/, and /oi/
The pronoun series is typically Oceanic. In addition to the basic forms tabulated below, dual and trial forms exist.
Possession may be grammatically marked in two ways. Preposed possessive particles can be used. 'Inalienable' possession, as in the case of body parts, kin, or inherent characteristics, can be marked by possessive suffixes.
Modern Nduke is tending away from use of these possessive series in preference for the general possessive marker ta, as in mata ta rai ('my eye').
Deictic terms are 'pointing words'. In addition to the personal deixis (pronoun and possessive) series above, Nduke has classes of words for spatial and time deixis.
Sources for documentation of Nduke language have been noted by Palmer 2005.[5] Grammar notes above have been sourced from Scales 1997.[6] Wordlists include Hocart 1908,[7] Tryon and Hackman 1983,[8] and an online wordlist based on Tryon and Hackman.[9] Lexical and Bible translation work are currently underway.
Because the Night is a crime fiction novel written by James Ellroy.
Released in 1984, it is the second installment of a trilogy that is either titled "Lloyd Hopkins Trilogy" after its main character, or "L.A Noir", after the hardcover omnibus that was released in 2006 containing all three books in the trilogy. 
Like Blood on the Moon (first book) and Suicide Hill (third and final book), it follows Lloyd Hopkins an LAPD robbery-homicide detective in the 1980s.
Because the Night features Hopkins investigating a triple murder at a liquor store. Nothing was stolen, leading Hopkins to suspect that the crime was a thrill killing. His investigation crosses paths with psychiatrist John Havilland, who uses drugs and professional expertise to manipulate a small group of followers into crime and debauchery. [1]

This article about a crime novel of the 1980s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.See guidelines for writing about novels. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
Swansea City Association Football Club, a Welsh association football club based in the city of Swansea, was founded in 1912 under the name of Swansea Town and joined the Second Division of the Southern Football League. Following the First World War, the Southern League dropped its Second Division, and with many clubs droppin out due to financial difficulties, Swansea were placed in the First Division. After four seasons in the Southern League, Swansea Town became founder members of the new Third Division of the Football League in 1920. During the club's 106-year existence, it has competed in a number of nationally and internationally organised competitions, and all players who have played in 100 or more such matches are listed below.
Roger Freestone holds the club record for most appearances in all competitions, having played 676 times in all competitions during two different spells spanning from 1989 to 2004. Wilfred Milne holds the record for the most league appearances, having made 583 appearances in his time at Swansea from 1920 to 1937. Ashley Williams holds the record for the number of international caps attained whilst playing for Swansea City. He represented Wales 64 times before he transferred to Everton in 2016.
The all-time goalscoring record is held by Ivor Allchurch. He scored 163 league goals, and 188 goals in all competitions during his two spells at Swansea. The nearest player that comes close to his tally, is Robbie James who scored 117 league goals in a Swansea career that began in 1972 and ended in 1990.
Player statistics include games played while on loan from:
P Player moved to Swansea permanently following a loan spell.
General
Specific
Jannat Sohail (English: /ˈjɑːnɑːt ˈsɒhæɪl/, Urdu: جنت سہیل, born 17 December 1993), known professionally as Wooly Aziz, and previously known as Wooly and the Uke is a Pakistani, singer, songwriter, and audio-visual artist[1] based in Berlin. Born and raised in Lahore, she rose to fame when she became part of an all-female ensemble on Nescafé Basement fourth season, a Pakistani music television series, produced by Zulfiqar Jabbar Khan in 2016.[2][1]
She released her debut single "Circus" in 2017, which writer Abdul-Rehman Malik reported saying, "it’s one hell of a debut"[3] and was named by Beehype as one of the best tracks from Pakistan of 2017.[3] Critically acclaimed, the music video of "Circus" was directed by renowned music directors Hamza Bin Tahir and Awais Gohar.[4] In 2020, her Poor Rich Boy collaboration "Watch"[5][6] and solo release "Circle in Circle" made her to be recognised by shesaid.so collective Alternative Power 100 Music List 2020,[7] and achieved Pop-Kultur residency by Goethe-Institut.[8][9] Wooly and the Uke is known for her compositions flow and indie folk lyrics, which have received widespread media coverage, with The News International describing it as "an oscillating part retro, part indie" music.[10]
Jannat Sohail was born on December 17, 1993, in Lahore, Pakistan.[1] She started writing lyrics at a very young age and her music evolved with her on going interactions with people around her.[1] She did her first performance when she was doing her A Levels studies and started to perform since then.[2] In 2016, Aziz developed the stage name "Wooly and the Uke"[1] after her performance at the Pakistani television music series Nescafé Basement fourth season, produced by Zulfiqar Jabbar Khan.[2][11] Being part of the first all-female ensemble at Nescafé Basement, her performance of John Newman's single "Love Me Again" at the Pakistani music television series prompted John Newman to tweet and praise her band's performance, saying "this is sooo dope! thank you!!".[12] Aziz in an interview with Alt Muslimah said  being part of Pakistan's first all-girls ensemble "one would think that Pakistan’s first all-girls ensemble would have faced numerous obstacles, but it was quite the opposite."[2] The song was critically acclaimed and Aziz's performance was highly lauded by  Ali Azmat and Junaid Khan, vocalist of the Pakistani rock band Call.[2] She attended National College of Arts at the Department of Architecture, a public university in Lahore, Pakistan.[13]
In 2017, Wooly and the Uke released her debut song "Circus", produced by Jamal Rahman.[1][14] In an interview with The News International, Aziz talked about the song saying, "for me it is a satirical comment on society, consumerism and not being able to get out of it".[14] The Revue compared her debut single composition to Laura Marling and Marissa Nadler music and reported that "her new single is as beautiful and stunning as anything these indie stars have released."[15]
Silene fruticosa is a species of perennial herb in the family Caryophyllaceae (carpetweeds). They have a self-supporting growth form. Individuals can grow to 0.2 m.[1][2]
 This article incorporates text from a free content work.  Licensed under CC0 (license statement/permission). Text taken from Silene fruticosa​,   . Encyclopedia of Life.
The Sharqiyin (Arabic: الشرقيون, singular Al Sharqi Arabic: الشرقي) is a tribe of the United Arab Emirates (UAE).[1]  
The Sharqiyin were long the dominant tribe along the East coast of the Trucial States (and the second most numerous in the area around the start of the 19th century), an area known as Shamailiyah.[2] A 1968 census showed 90% of the tribal population of Fujairah was Sharqiyin.[3] They were traditionally dependents of Sharjah and, over the centuries, made several attempts to secede and declare independence, finally practically managing this from 1901 onwards[4] and finally gaining British recognition as a Trucial State, Fujairah, in 1952.[5]
They settled all along the East Coast of the Trucial States, from Kalba to Dibba, as well as in the Wadi Ham and Jiri plain and by the turn of the 20th century they were some 7,000 strong. Three sections of the tribe are notable, the Hafaitat (from which the ruling family of Fujairah derives), the Yammahi and the Hamudiyin.[1] After the Bani Yas, the Sharqiyin were the second most numerous tribe in the Trucial States.
In 1879, the head of the Hafaitat, Sheikh Hamad bin Abdullah Al Sharqi, led an insurrection against Sheikh Saqr bin Khalid Al Qasimi of Sharjah, who claimed suzerainty over the Shamaliyah and had placed a slave named Sarur in charge of Fujairah.[6] The insurrection replaced Sarur and a delegation was sent to Sheikh Saqr but they were badly received, imprisoned and a force sent back against the insurrectionists, taking Fujairah Fort and forcing Hamad bin Abdullah into exile. At the end of that year or possibly early 1880, Hamad returned from his exile and led a fresh bid to proclaim the independence of Fujairah, this time forcing a rout of Fujairah Fort, with eight men among the defenders killed.[6]
The settlement of a peace was placed in front of the Ruler of Ras Al Khaimah to arbitrate and, in 1881, Hamad bin Abdullah signed a document confirming him as a dependent of Sharjah. However, he expanded his influence over the area, taking Al Bithnah Fort in a move which was to support his eventual declaration of independence from Sharjah in 1901, a move which enjoyed the recognition of this status by all concerned, with the sole exception of the British.[7] Fujairah's status as a Trucial State was not formally recognised by the British until 1952.
Subsisting in the main on agriculture, pearling and fishing, the Sharqiyin lived a relatively harsh life, a fact underlined by a survey of the late 1960s, which showed the majority of households in the emirate of Fujairah still lived in barasti (palm frond) houses.[8]
The Sharqiyin were frequently in conflict with their neighbours, particularly the Shihuh, Khawatir and Naqbiyin, but would make common cause with these against Sharjah whenever the opportunity arose.[3]
The long history of squabbles and disputes between the Sharqiyn and neighbouring tribes came to the fore once again following the act of Union, when a land dispute with Kalba broke out into open fighting. In early 1972, the newly founded Union Defence Force was called in to take control of the fighting which, by the time the UDF moved in, had killed 22 and seriously injured a dozen more. The dispute was finally settled after mediation between Sheikh Rashid of Dubai and other Rulers and a statement announcing the settlement was sent out on 17 July 1972.[9]
Mmapaseka "Steve" Letsike is a South African human rights activist. Well known for her AIDS activism through her leadership roles within the South African National AIDS Council, Letsike is also one of the most prominent lesbian figures within the African National Congress, and has campaigned for LGBT rights in South Africa.
Letsike was the deputy chair of the South African National AIDS Council, and served as the chair of its National Society Forum, implementing policies at a grassroots and local level.[1] For several years, Letsike served as deputy to Cyril Ramaphosa, who went on to become the President of South Africa.[2] Through her role with SANAC, Letsike called on increased psychosocial support, in addition to antiretroviral programmes, for people diagnosed with HIV/AIDS.[3]
In 2015, Letsike represented South Africa at the launch of the DREAMS Partnership, aiming to secure an AIDS-free future for women in sub-Saharan Africa.[4]
In 2021, Ramaphosa named Letsike to the Chief Justice Panel, to interview shortlisted candidates and to decide who to replace Mogoeng Mogoeng at the end of his term as Chief Justice of South Africa.[5]
As a teenager, Letsike successfully challenged her high school's uniform policy, which had prohibited girls from wearing trousers. She also established its first female football team.[2][6][7] As an adult, Letsike worked for various organisations, including Anova Health Institute, which provided sexual health services to men who had sex with men in Gauteng, Mpamalanga, North West, Limpopo, and Western Cape.[8]
Letsike went on to establish Access Chapter 2, a non-governmental organisation that raised awareness of intersectional issues facing South Africa's marginalised communities, including black people, women, children, and the LGBT community. AC2 was named after South Africa's Bill of Rights.[2]
Following the murders of several lesbians in 2011, including Noxolo Nogwaza, the government of South Africa established the National Task Team to investigate the increase in LGBT hate crimes in the country, with Letsike named as co-chair.[6][9] In 2014, she wrote an open letter to African leaders following the passing of the Anti-Homosexuality Act by the government of Uganda.[10]
In 2021, Letsike was named the chair of the Commonwealth Equality Network, an organisation representing civil society organisations working for LGBT rights across the Commonwealth.[11][7]
In 2023, Letsike was widely tipped as being likely to be elected to the ANC's National Executive Committee; when she did not secure a nomination for any of the 87 available seats, the party's Embrace Diversity Political Movement criticised her exclusion and the failure to elect any LGBT people to the NEC.[12] In January 2024, the NEC's General Secretary, Fikile Mbalula, named Letsike as among four new people apponted to the NEC to bring "more balanced representation" to the ANC's decision-making body. She became the second openly LGBT person to sit on the NEC, after Lynne Brown.[13]
Letsike was born and raised in Atteridgeville, Gauteng, South Africa. Letsike's parents both died when she was young, and she was subsequently raised by her grandparents.[2][7]
In 2018, Letsike married her long-term partner, Lucy Thukwane.[14] She has a daughter.[2]
Love at Twenty (French: L'Amour à vingt ans, Japanese: 二十歳の恋, romanized: Hatachi no koi, Italian: L'amore a vent'anni, German: Liebe mit zwanzig, Polish: Miłość dwudziestolatków) is a 1962 French-produced omnibus project of Pierre Roustang, consisting of five segments, each with a different director from a separate country. It was entered into the 12th Berlin International Film Festival.[2]
The first segment, titled "Antoine and Colette", is by François Truffaut and returns actor Jean-Pierre Léaud to the role of Antoine Doinel, a role he played three years earlier in The 400 Blows and would return to again in 1968 (Stolen Kisses), 1970 (Bed and Board) and 1979 (Love on the Run).  It concerns the frustrations of love for the now 17-year-old Doinel and the unresponsive girl he adores.[3]
The second, titled "Rome", is the directorial debut of 21-year-old Renzo Rossellini, son of Roberto Rossellini and later a noted producer. It tells the story of a tough mistress who loses her lover to an older, wealthier and more appreciative woman.[4]
The third, "Tokyo" by Japanese film director Shintarō Ishihara, has been described as a "weird, grotesque"[3] and "clumsy"[5] tale of obsessive and morbid love.  
The fourth, "Munich", is by Marcel Ophüls and was described as a "charming, but somewhat sentimental"[3] story of an unwed mother who contrives to trap her baby's father.  
The fifth and final segment, "Warsaw" by Andrzej Wajda, depicts a brief intergenerational liaison based upon multiple misunderstandings.[5]  The episodes are tied together with still photos by Henri Cartier-Bresson and a wistful jazz soundtrack by Georges Delerue.
Truffaut's and Wajda's segments (the first and the last, respectively) are considered the highlights.[6]
Kinds of Kindness is an upcoming anthology film directed by Yorgos Lanthimos from a screenplay he co-wrote with Efthimis Filippou. It stars Emma Stone, Jesse Plemons, Willem Dafoe, Margaret Qualley, Hong Chau, Joe Alwyn, Mamoudou Athie, and Hunter Schafer. Searchlight Pictures is distributing the film.
It is scheduled to be released in the United States on June 21, 2024, by Searchlight Pictures.
Lanthimos has described Kinds of Kindness as "a contemporary film, set in the US – three different stories, with four or five actors who play one part in each story".[1]
Yorgos Lanthimos and Efthymis Filippou wrote the script for the film, originally titled And, under development with Element Pictures and Film4, and Searchlight Pictures agreed to distribute the film, which Lanthimos would direct as well. Emma Stone, Jesse Plemons, Willem Dafoe, and Margaret Qualley were set to star in the film with plans to begin shooting in New Orleans in October.[2] In October 2022, Hong Chau,[3] Joe Alwyn,[4] and Mamoudou Athie joined the cast.[5] In a February 2023 interview, Hunter Schafer revealed she had "a little cameo" in the film.[6]
Filming began in October 24, 2022 and went through December 16, 2022 in New Orleans.[7][8] In December 2023, the film was re-titled Kinds of Kindness.[9]
It is scheduled to be released in the United States and Canada on June 21, 2024, by Searchlight Pictures.[10]
The Tiger Fire was a wildfire that burned 16,278 acres (6,587 ha) in the U.S. state of Arizona from June to July 2021. The fire was caused by a dry lightning strike in the Prescott National Forest. Although Horsethief Basin Lake was evacuated and both the community of Crown King and the census-designated place of Black Canyon City were threatened, no injuries or deaths were reported, and no buildings were destroyed. Over 300 fire personnel were assigned to contain the blaze.
The fire began at around 2 pm (MDT) on June 30, 2021, in the Castle Creek Wilderness in the Prescott National Forest. The fire was caused by dry lightning from passing thunderstorms.[1][2]
One day after the fire ignited, on July 1, the fire had burned 1,700 acres (690 ha) of land and was burning in steep, rugged terrain 11 mi (18 km) east of Crown King. Heavy smoke from the fire was visible along Interstate 17 near Sunset Point, Arizona.[3] By the end of the following day, the fire had already burned 5,567 acres (2,253 ha) and was burning 3 mi (4.8 km) northwest of Black Canyon City, where a 2015 wildfire had scorched 4,900 acres (2,000 ha).[1] At this point, approximately 63 fire personnel were working to control the blaze, using equipment including two helicopters.[1]
By 8:30 am on July 4, the completely-uncontained blaze had burned 9,800 acres (4,000 ha). A total of 159 personnel were working on easing the fire to keep it under control.[4] Throughout the day, aerial firefighting was effective on the southern and eastern perimeters. An evacuation order was issued for Horsethief Basin Lake due to winds pushing the fire towards the reservoir, while Crown King was put on high alert.[5] On the same day, scattered rain showers slowed the expansion of the fire and reduced its activity. The greatest concentration—approximately 2.65 in (67 mm) of rain—landed towards the south of the fire.[6]
By July 7, the fire had burned 12,133 acres (4,910 ha) due to high temperatures and low humidity caused by a high-pressure system hovering over Arizona on July 6. A total of 323 personnel were working on containing the fire.[7] On July 15, with a burned area of more than 16,000 acres (6,500 ha), the fire reached 59% containment; all evacuation orders were lifted, and although there was no threat of the fire spreading any further, firefighters continued to monitor containment lines throughout the day.[8] The Tiger Fire was fully contained on July 30 after burning a total area of 16,278 acres (6,587 ha).[9]
The Tiger Fire burned 16,278 acres (6,587 ha) of dry grass and brush,[9] with over 300 fire personnel responding to the blaze.[7] The fire cost $5,644,000 (2021 USD) to suppress.[10] A shelter was opened at New River Elementary School near Black Canyon Highway for evacuees affected by the blaze.[11] No buildings were destroyed, and no injuries or deaths were reported for the duration of the fire.[10][9]
The 2013–14 season of the Oberliga was the sixth season of the Oberligas at tier five of the German football league system and the 40th season overall since reintroduction of the Oberligas in 1974. The regular season started in July 2013 and finished in May 2014.
The Oberliga is organised in fourteen regional divisions with the league champions promoted to the level above, the Regionalligas while the relegated teams drop down to the Verbandsligas and Landesligas.
The 2013–14 season saw 245 clubs compete in fourteen Oberliga divisions. Of the fourteen league champions eight were promoted to the Regionalliga while four declined promotion. One club, Bremer SV, missed out on promotion in the play-off round while Arminia Bielefeld II was ineligible for promotion because the first team of the club was relegated to the 3. Liga and reserve teams of 3. Liga clubs can not play in the Regionalliga. Two of the league champions who declined promotion, BC Aichach and TGM SV Jügesheim, completely withdrew from the Oberliga to compete at a lower level in 2014–15.[1][2]
Of the fourteen league champions VfB Lübeck was arguably the most outstanding, winning 31 of their 34-season games and drawing the other three, thereby remaining undefeated all season. BFC Dynamo was the only other undefeated team, winning 27 and also drawing three. Lübeck also had the best defence, conceding only 17 goals all season and the second-best attack with 116 goals scored, four less than Bremer SV. PSV Wesel-Lackhausen had the worst defence of all Oberliga clubs, conceding 130 goals. While no club went winless all season a number achieved only two wins all season.[1][2]
Four Oberliga runners-up and one third placed team were also promoted to the Regionalliga. FC Nöttingen and FT Braunschweig did so after success in a promotion round while SV Rödinghausen was automatically promoted as the Oberliga Westfalen runners-up and VfR Garching and FC Kray took up the promotion spot their league champions had declined. No club was promoted from the Bremen-Liga, Oberliga Hamburg and Hessenliga.[1][2]
At the other end of the table, 38 clubs were relegated from the Oberligas while six voluntarily withdrew to compete at a lower level. Four more teams, all reserve sides, were completely withdrawn from competition. All up, 48 clubs dropped out of the league.[1][2]
The most goals scored by any player in the Oberligas were by Iranian-German Iman Bi-Ria who scored 48 goals for Bremer SV in the Bremen-Liga.[3]
The 2013–14 league champions, promoted and relegated teams, the league strength (S), the top scorer and the number of goals they scored:[1][2]
Promotion play-offs were held at the end of the season to the Regionalliga Südwest, Regionalliga Bayern and Regionalliga Nord:[46]
The runners-up of the Hessenliga, Oberliga Rheinland-Pfalz/Saar and the Oberliga Baden-Württemberg were scheduled to play each other for one more spot in the Regionalliga. The Hessenliga runners-up declined this opportunity leaving just two teams to play off, with FC Nöttingen winning promotion to the Regionalliga:[47]
The 15th and 16th placed Regionalliga teams played the runners-up of the northern division, TSV Aubstadt, and the third placed team in the south, FC Pipinsried. Both Bayernliga teams failed to earn promotion while 1. FC Schweinfurt 05 retained its league place and TSV 1860 Rosenheim was relegated:[48]
Rosenheim won 3−2 on aggregate.
Schweinfurt won 7−3 on aggregate.
The winners of the first round play each other for the one available spot in the Regionalliga:
Schweinfurt won 6–1 on aggregate.
The champions of the Bremen-Liga and the Schleswig-Holstein-Liga as well as the runners-up from the Niedersachsenliga entered a play-off for two more spots in the Regionalliga Nord. The champions of the Oberliga Hamburg declined participation. VfB Lübeck and FT Braunschweig were promoted while Bremer SV failed to win promotion:[49]
Cape Ryugu (67°58′S 44°2′E﻿ / ﻿67.967°S 44.033°E﻿ / -67.967; 44.033) is a rocky cape 7 nautical miles (13 km) northeast of Rakuda Rock on the coast of Queen Maud Land in Antarctica. Mapped from surveys and air photos by Japanese Antarctic Research Expedition (JARE), 1957–62, and named Ryugu-misaki (cape of the dragon's palace).
 This article incorporates public domain material from "Cape Ryugu". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.  

This Queen Maud Land location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
House Broken is the second live album by American progressive rock/AOR band Pavlov's Dog, released in 2016.
The album is an audio-visual recording of Pavlov's Dog live concert at the Der Hirsch music venue in Nuremberg, Germany, during their 2015 European Tour.[9]
The band performed songs from their previously released albums, their then upcoming album Prodigal Dreamer, two songs from David Surkamp's solo work Dancing on the Edge of a Teacup,[10] as well as one song from Hi-Fi's album Moods for Mallards.[11] They also played the previously unreleased "Canadian Rain", with David Surkamp introducing the song as one of the last things he wrote with Douglas Rayburn before the latter died in 2012.[12] "Crying Forever" was written by Surkamp for Savoy Brown,[13] included in their 2007 studio album Steel.[14] Pavlov's Dog later recorded their own studio version for their 2018 album Prodigal Dreamer.
As the band's only constant member and leader, David Surkamp thought the line-up Pavlov's Dog had during the time of the album's recording was the best ever. To support that, he said that when he wrote "Did You See Him Cry" for the At the Sound of the Bell album in 1976 the band couldn't play it live because it was too hard for them, while the 2015 members "tear it up".[15]
All tracks credited to David Surkamp, except where noted.
The DVD contains all songs from CD1 and CD2 in the same running order.
All information according to the album's liner notes.
Pavlov's Dog
Production
Artwork
Sergey Teslya is a Russian violinist, born in Novosibirsk.
A former member of Vladimir Spivakov's chamber orchestra Moscow Virtuosi, Teslya settled in Spain in 1990. He has held the concertmaster chair at the Real Orquesta Sinfónica de Sevilla (1994–2002) -for which he created a chamber orchestra- and the Orquesta Nacional de España (2002– ), and has performed as a soloist in several Spanish concert halls.

This article about a Russian classical musician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article on a violinist or fiddler is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bundesautobahn 573 (translates from German as Federal Motorway 573, short form Autobahn 573, abbreviated as BAB 573 or A 573) is an autobahn in Germany. It leads from the A 61 through Bad Neuenahr and ends behind Bad Neuenahr at a provisional connection. The extension to Linz am Rhein with a bridge is planned, but will be realized as the Bundesstraße 266.
The A 573 was originally planned as the southern end of the A 31.

This German road or road transport-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
John McKusick (December 18, 1815 – October 26, 1900[3]) was an American lumberman, politician, and pioneer who served four terms as a Minnesota state senator from 1863 to 1867.[1] He was the first mayor of Stillwater, Minnesota, and built the city's first lumber mill.[3]
Born in Cornish, Maine, in 1815, John McKusick received a common school education before traveling to Illinois in 1839.[1] In 1840, he moved to St. Croix Falls, Wisconsin Territory, and became a lumberman.[1] In 1847, he married Phebe Greely, but she died shortly thereafter. he was soon remarried to Servia Greely in November 1849, with whom he had children Newton, Chester, and Ella.[1][3]
McKusick began his political career as Stillwater's postmaster.[4] He later served as the first Mayor of Stillwater in 1854, the year the city was incorporated.[4] From 1863 to 1867, he served four terms as a Minnesota state senator from the 2nd district, representing Chisago, Kanabec, Pine, and Washington County.[1][5]
On February 18, 1887, Servia died, and McKusick once again remarried a few years thereafter, this time to Ella Knapp.[3]
McKusick died of liver disease on October 26, 1900, in Stillwater.[3] Following his death, his estate was estimated to be worth $100,000 – equivalent to $3,517,600 in 2022 – to $150,000, equivalent to $5,276,400 in 2022.[6]
Borovčanin (Serbian Cyrillic: Боровчанин) is a Bosnian and Serbian surname, derived from the demonym of Borovac. It is traditionally found in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It may refer to:
Antonio Beltrami (1724–1784) was an Italian painter active in the late-Baroque and Neoclassic periods. He was born in Cremona. He was a pupil of Francesco Boccaccino, who emerged from the school of Carlo Maratta. His older brother, Giovanni Battista was an engraver.
Antonio painted at age 16 for the church of the Observant Minorites of San'Angelo in Cremona a canvas of Saints of the Franciscan order.  He traveled to the royal court in Vienna to perform portraits and decorate maps.

This article about an Italian painter born in the 18th century is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Mirage Tour in Autumn 1982 was a concert tour by British-American pop rock band Fleetwood Mac. The tour lasted two months. Unlike the extensive Tusk Tour, the Mirage Tour was confined to just the U.S. in 29 cities.
This would be the last tour with Lindsey Buckingham with the band until The Dance in 1997. Although Buckingham would perform on and produce the next album, Tango in the Night, he did not tour and decided to leave the band.[1]
Tragedy struck during the month of October when Nicks' best friend, Robin Anderson, died leaving Nicks in a total state of shock. As a result, she gave some of her most electrifying and heartfelt performances to date.[2]
On October 18, the band played at a benefit concert organized by the City of Hope foundation. Nicks also played a solo set with her band and Don Henley appearing as a guest artist.
The October 15 and 20 shows were originally scheduled for early October, but had to be postponed because Nicks was ill, suffering from walking pneumonia.[3]
The October 22 show at The Forum in Inglewood, was filmed and released in 1984 in VHS (and later in DVD) under the title "Fleetwood Mac In Concert - Mirage Tour '82".[4]
^ Shipments figures based on certification alone.
Kaikhosro III Gurieli (Georgian: ქაიხოსრო III გურიელი; died c. 1751) was a member of the Georgian family of Gurieli, a princely dynasty of Guria. He was briefly Prince-regnant of Guria as a rival to his brother Giorgi IV Gurieli in 1716. In 1724, he emigrated to the Russian Empire, where he commanded the Georgian Hussar Regiment in the 1740s.
Kaikhosro was the second son of Mamia III Gurieli, Prince of Guria, and Elene, daughter of Giorgi-Malakia Abashidze. He was a monk in 1716, when Elene engineered a coup against his own son, Giorgi IV Gurieli, whom she deposed with the help of Mingrelian and Imeretian troops and installed Kaikhosro as prince of Guria. Next year, Giorgi was able to resume his rule with the help of Ottoman pasha of Erzurum; Elene and Kaikhosro fled to Kartli under the protection of King Vakhtang VI, whose mother Tuta was Kaikhosro's grandfather's sister.[1]
In 1724, Kaikhosro and his wife followed Vakhtang VI in his exile into Russia occasioned by the Ottoman invasion of Kartli. Known in Russia as Kaikhosro Matveyevich Gurielov, he was enlisted in the Georgian Hussar Regiment in 1738 and granted an estate in the Poltava Governorate. In 1741, he was promoted to the rank of podpolkovnik and placed in command of the Georgian Hussar Regiment. He retired in 1751. Kaikhosro's Russia-born son Stepan (1730–1812) and grandson Ivan (1770–1818) were major-generals of the Imperial Russian Army. With Ivan's death, the Gurieli's Russian branch went extinct in a male line; Kaikhosro's female-line descendants sought the right to carry the surname of Gurieli into their families in the 19th century, but to no avail.[2]
Umeschandra College is an undergraduate college in Kolkata, India that offers courses in commerce.[1] It is affiliated with the University of Calcutta.[2] It was named after Brahmo thinker Umesh Chandra Dutta.
Tarik Brahmi (born May 19, 1968) is a Canadian engineer and politician. He was the Member of Parliament for the riding of Saint-Jean from 2011, when he defeated incumbent Claude Bachand of the Bloc Québécois, until 2015, and sat with New Democratic Party caucus.
Born in Lyon, France, with a father from Toudja, Algeria, he graduated from the Université de Montpellier in 1991 with a degree in Microelectronics and Control Engineering. He became interested in environmental causes in 1995, and worked in software development.  He immigrated to Canada in 2002 and became a Canadian citizen in 2006.  He was a candidate for the municipal council of Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu in 2009.
Prior to being elected to parliament, he worked as a senior interviewer for Statistics Canada. Brahmi did not stand in the 2015 federal election.
Source: Elections Canada
The Staten Island Advance is a daily newspaper published in Staten Island, one of the five boroughs of New York City. It is the only daily newspaper published in Staten Island and the only major daily newspaper focused on covering it exclusively. Staten Island Advance covers news of local and community interest, including Staten Island politics. Staten Island Advance is the namesake and nominal flagship publication of Advance Publications.
As of April 25, 2007, the newspaper's weekday circulation was down 3.9% from 2006, to 59,461, and its Sunday circulation dropped 4.6% from 2006, to 73,203.[2]
The Advance was founded in 1886 by printer John J. Crawford and businessman James C. Kennedy and initially known as the Richmond County Advance. The name was later changed to the Daily Advance and then to its current name. When The Advance was founded in 1886, there were nine competing daily newspapers in Staten Island. The circulation of 'The 'Advance quickly surpassed these early competitors, growing from 4,500 in 1910 to over 80,000 by the mid-1990s.[citation needed]
In 1908, Samuel Irving Newhouse Sr. began working as an office assistant to Hyman Lazarus, an attorney, owner of the Bayonne Times, and a leader of New Jersey's Democratic Party machine. By 1916, when Newhouse was 21, Lazarus rewarded him with a salary of around $30,000 per year, and 25 percent ownership of the Bayonne Times, for loyal service.
In 1922, Newhouse and Lazarus purchased the Staten Island Advance in one of the first in a series of newspapers Lazarus acquired. When Lazarus died in 1924, Newhouse bought his family's share of Staten Island Advance stock.
Throughout the 1920s, the Newhouse family loaned money to Henry Garfinkle, which enabled him to open newsstands that increased sales of the newspaper at St. George Ferry Terminal on Staten Island, and later opened newsstands throughout Manhattan and at LaGuardia Airport in Queens, Newark Airport in Newark, New Jersey, and Port Authority Bus Terminal; the newsstand at Port Authority was, at the time, the world's largest and most lucrative newsstand.
Even during the Great Depression in the 1930s, the Newhouse family had enough money to buy the Long Island Press in Jamaica, Queens and several of its competitors, including the Long Island Star, North Shore Journal, Nassau Journal, Newark Ledger, the Newark Star, and newspapers in Syracuse, New York. Throughout the 1930s, the Newhouse family paid its non-unionized newsroom employees at the Long Island Press a third less than the unionized employees at The New York Times and New York Daily Newss. Newhouse, in turn, paid himself a salary greater than the total of all the salaries paid to the 65 Staten Island Advance newsroom employees combined.
Throughout the 1940s, the Newhouse family continued aggressively acquiring purchasing newspapers in Syracuse, Jersey City, New Jersey, and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. In the 1950s, they acquired newspapers in St. Louis, Oregon, and Alabama. The Newhouse family's wealth approached $200 million in the late 1950s, enabling it to purchase Vogue and other Conde Nast magazines. Author Richard Meeker describes the mounting suspicions about the Newhouse family's source of wealth in Newspaperman: S.I. Newhouse and the Business Of News:
Newspaper analysts were so suspicious of the source of Newhouse's funds that they discussed openly the possibility that he was laundering money...Some went so far as to suggest that his newspaper operations had been used as a front for the notorious Reinfeld mob, a group of booze-peddling hoodlums whose boss had made millions during prohibition.One way the Newhouse family was able to accumulate so much money so rapidly was by hiring accountants and lawyers who figured out unique ways for the Newhouse dynasty to avoid paying taxes. As Newspaperman reported:
"They played every tax game there was", recalled one man who once served as publisher for several Newhouse newspapers.  That meant that every cost that could conceivably be written off as a business deduction was, that assets were depreciated as rapidly as possible, and that new acquisitions were "written up" as high as the law allowed ... Where Newhouse developed a special advantage was in the way he avoided paying taxes for the profits that remained to him after the payment of corporate taxes ...Thanks to an ingenious device created by his accountant, Louis Glickman, and implemented by his attorney, Charles Goldman, Newhouse was able to avoid paying taxes on accumulated earnings and, thus, to multiply the value of his earnings several times.  Doing so involved the creation of a special corporate structure for the various newspapers ... Because the Goldman–Glickman construct kept the various enterprises separate—for tax purposes at least—each could claim the right to its own surplus.  Taken together, the accumulation that resulted was many times what the IRS would have allowed had Newhouse simply treated all of his operations as a single corporation.Meeker characterized the Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation as "a charity his Samuel Irving Newhouse Sr.'s lawyers had created as an additional tax dodge", and charged that Newhouse Foundation funds were used by the Newhouse family to finance its $18 million purchase of Alabama's Birmingham News in 1955.
After Newhouse died in 1979, his two sons, Samuel Irving Newhouse Jr. and Donald Newhouse, were accused of tax evasion by the IRS in 1983.[3] While the IRS dropped tax fraud charges against them in the 1980s, it increased the Newhouse family tax delinquency bill to $1.2 billion, asserting that the Newhouse estate was actually worth $2.2 billion, not $1.2 billion when Samuel Newhouse Sr. died in 1979, according to the March 13, 1989, issue of The Nation.
One year after Newhouse's death in 1979, the Advance Group purchased Random House, and then sold it to Bertelsmann eleven years later, in 1998.
The original Staten Island Advance office was located on Castleton Avenue in the West Brighton neighborhood of Staten Island. In 1960, the paper moved to its current office on West Fingerboard Road in the Grasmere neighborhood of Staten Island.[4]
 Media related to Staten Island Advance at Wikimedia Commons
The 2011 NCAA Division I Men's Golf Championship was a golf tournament contested from May 31 to June 5, 2011 at the Karsten Creek Golf Club in Stillwater, Oklahoma and was hosted by Oklahoma State University. It was the 73rd NCAA Division I Men's Golf Championship. The team championship was won by the Augusta State Jaguars who won their second consecutive national championship by defeating the Georgia Bulldogs in the championship match play round 3–2. The individual national championship was won by John Peterson from Louisiana State University.[1][2][3]
This was the second NCAA Division I Men's Golf Championship, and the first since 2003, held at the Karsten Creek Golf Club in Stillwater, Oklahoma. It was the third NCAA tournament hosted by Oklahoma State University in 1973, 2003, 2011.
The top eight teams advanced to the match play portion of the tournament.
36°06′09″N 97°11′07″W﻿ / ﻿36.10250°N 97.18528°W﻿ / 36.10250; -97.18528
Varsen is a hamlet in the Dutch province of Overijssel. It is a part of the municipality of Ommen, and lies about 19 km east of Zwolle.
It was first mentioned between 1381 and 1383 as Versen. The etymology is unclear.[3] The postal authorities have placed it under Ommen.[4] In 1840, it was home to 279 people.[5] Archaeological finds have been discovered near Varsen which indicate that the area has been settled by the Funnelbeaker culture.[5]

This Overijssel location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Henry Akubuiro // ⓘ is a Nigerian literary journalist, novelist and short story writer.[1]
Akubuiro graduated from the Department of English and Literary Studies, Imo State University, Owerri in 2003.[2][3] He began  his journalism career as an undergraduate at the university, where he became the pioneer editor of The Elite—the student newspaper in Imo State University—and The Imo Star—the newspaper of the Student Union Government.
He won the 1998 BBC World Service Young Reporters' Competition and the National Essay Competition organised by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports.[2][3]
And in 2005, he won the ANA Literary Journalist of the Year; while his unpublished juvenilia, Little Wizard of Okokomaiko, won the 2009 ANA/Lantern Prize for Fiction.[2]
In 2016, he wrote Prodigals in Paradise, which was shortlisted for the 2016 ANA Prose Prize.[4][5]
Lieutenant General Hamid Gul HI(M) SI(M) SBt (Urdu: حمید گل‎; 20 November 1936 – 15 August 2015) was a Pakistani three-star general and defence analyst. Gul was notable for serving as the Director-General of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan's premier intelligence agency, between 1987 and 1989. During his tenure, Gul played an instrumental role in directing ISI support to Afghan resistance groups against Soviet forces in return for funds and weapons from the US, during the Soviet–Afghan War, in co-operation with the CIA.[5]
In addition, Gul was widely credited for expanding covert support to Kashmiri freedom fighters[6] against neighbouring rival India in the disputed Kashmir region from 1989,[7] Gul earned a reputation as a "Godfather" of Pakistani geostrategic policies.[8][9] For his role against India, he has been considered by A. S. Dulat, former director of RAW, as "the most dangerous and infamous ISI chief in Indian eyes."[10]
In 1988 Gul also played a role in the creation of the IJI, a conservative political alliance formed to oppose the PPP of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
On 15 August 2015, he died after suffering a brain haemorrhage.[11][12]
Hamid Gul was born on 20 November 1936 in Sargodha in the Punjab Province of British India (now in Punjab, Pakistan) into a Punjabi-Pathan family to parents Muhammad Khan and his wife, who originated from Buner Tehsil in Swat District.
Gul ancestrally descended from the Yusufzai tribe of Pashtuns. His father, who was a Subedar-Major in the British Indian Army, moved from Swat to Lahore before settling down in Sargodha, where he got arable land, his grandfather was a Khilafat Movement activist while his great-grandfather Faiz Khan was a Deobandi who participated in the jihad of Syed Ahmad Barelvi and Shah Ismail Dehlvi.[13]
He got his early education from a school in his village. He then received admission into Government College Lahore, before being admitted to Pakistan Military Academy Kakul.[14]
Hamid Gul was commissioned in the Pakistan Army in October 1956 with the 18th PMA Long Course in the 19th Lancers regiment of the Armoured Corps. He was a squadron commander during the 1965 war with India. He attended the Command and Staff College Quetta in 1968–69. During 1972–1976, Gul directly served under General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq as a battalion commander, and then as Staff Colonel, when General Zia was GOC, 1st Armoured Division and Commander II Corps at Multan. Thus, Gul had already cemented his ties with General Zia by serving under him when both were officers in the Armoured regiments of the II Corps. Gul was promoted to Brigadier in 1978 and steadily rose to be the Martial Law Administrator of Bahawalpur and then the Commander of the 1st Armoured Division, Multan in 1982, his appointments expressly wished by Zia himself.[citation needed]
Gul was then sent to GHQ as the Director-General or DG Military Intelligence (DGMI)[15] under General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq who then nominated him to be the ISI chief succeeding General Akhtar Abdur Rahman in March 1987. He was later replaced as the ISI commander by PM Benazir Bhutto in May 1989 and Gul was transferred as the commander, II Corps in Multan. In this capacity, Gul conducted the Zarb-e-Momin military exercise in November–December 1989, the biggest Pakistani Armed Forces show of muscle since 1971 Indo-Pakistani War.[citation needed]
General Asif Nawaz upon taking the reins of Pakistan Army in August 1991, had transferred Gul as the DG Heavy Industries Taxila. A menial job compared to Gul's stature, Gul refused to take the assignment, an act for which he was retired from the army.[16]
During his time as head of the ISI amid the Soviet–Afghan War, Gul planned and executed the operation to capture Jalalabad from the Soviet-backed Afghan army in the spring of 1989. This switch to conventional warfare was seen as a mistake by some since the mujahideen did not have the capacity to capture a major city, and the battle did not yield expected ground results.[17] However, the Pakistani army was intent on installing a resistance-backed government in Afghanistan, with Jalalabad as their provisional capital, Abdul Rasul Sayyaf as Prime Minister, and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as Foreign Minister.
Contrary to Pakistani expectations, this battle proved that the Afghan army could fight without Soviet help, and greatly increased the confidence of government supporters. Conversely, the morale of the mujahideen involved in the attack slumped and many local commanders of Hekmatyar and Sayyaf concluded truces with the government.[18]
During his tenure as ISI chief in 1988, General Gul successfully gathered conservative politicians and helped them create IJI, a centre-right conservative coalition united against the left-leaning PPP. Gul later acknowledged his role in IJI's formation in various interviews[19] for which he was harshly rebuked in one of the editorials of a major Pakistani newspaper, which asked the general to apologise first to the PPP for having done so and after that, apologising for a lack of intelligence because the IJI could not maintain its two-thirds majority for long.[20]
According to accusations by Indian commentator B Raman, Gul actively backed Khalistan movement . "When Bhutto became prime minister in 1988", Raman says, "Gul justified backing these insurgents as the only way of pre-empting a fresh Indian threat to Pakistan's territorial integrity. When she asked him to stop playing that card, he reportedly told her: Madam, keeping Punjab destabilized is equivalent to the Pakistan army having an extra division at no cost to the taxpayers." "Gul strongly advocated supporting indigenous Kashmiri groups", adds Raman, "but was against infiltrating Pakistani and Afghan mercenaries into Jammu and Kashmir. He believed Pakistan would play into India's hands by doing so."[21]
Even if the ISI, under General Akhtar Abdur Rahman, was already aiming beyond the region, for instance establishing contacts with jihadi groups like the Abu Sayyaf in the Philippines, it was under Hamid Gul that the ISI took a definitely pan-Islamist turn, as he not only wished for a Pakistan-led Islamic coalition against India, in his own words "a strategic depth concept that links Pakistan, Iran, Turkey, and Afghanistan in an alliance" which "would be a jeweled Mughal dagger pointed at the Hindu heart", but also called for what he perceived as the liberation of persecuted Muslim groups all over the world, such as the Eritreans, the Bosniaks, the Rohingyas, the Uzbeks and the Uighurs.[22]
At the time of his death, journalist Abbas Nasir, while offering a critical review of his life and career, said that "commitment to jihad - to an Islamic revolution transcending national boundaries, was such that he dreamed one day the "green Islamic flag" would flutter not just over Pakistan and Afghanistan, but also over territories represented by the (former Soviet Union) Central Asian republics."[23]
General Gul worked closely with the CIA during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, when he was the ISI head. However, he became dispassionate with the United States after it turned its back on Afghanistan following the 1989 Soviet withdrawal, as the United States had promised to help build a prosperous Afghanistan.[21] He was further disconcerted when the US began punishing Pakistan with economic and military sanctions for its secret nuclear program. General Gul then went on to declare that "the Muslim world must stand united to confront the U.S. in its so-called War on Terrorism, which is in reality a war against Muslims. Let's destroy America wherever its troops are trapped."[24]
General Gul personally met Osama bin Laden in 1993 and refused to label him a terrorist unless and until irrefutable evidence was provided linking him to alleged acts of terrorism.[25] Only days after the September 11 attacks, Gul also stated his belief that the attacks were "clearly an inside job".[26][27][28]
According to Zahid Hussain, in his book Frontline Pakistan, Lt. Gen. Hamid Gul and former Army chief General Mirza Aslam Beg were part of the 9 January 2001 Darul Uloom Haqqania Islamic conference held near Peshawar, which was also attended by 300 leaders representing various Islamic groups. The meeting declared it a religious duty of Muslims all over the world to protect the government of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, and the Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden it was hosting, whom they considered as a 'great Muslim warrior.'[29]
On 12 March 2007, Gul marched alongside activists from the liberal democratic parties and retired former senior military officers against General Pervez Musharraf. General Gul faced down riot police when they tried to arrest him at a rally outside the Supreme Court in Islamabad protesting against attempts to dismiss Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.[30]
He turned against the restored Supreme Court chief justice after a bench allowed Musharraf to contest the elections in uniform.[31]
Days after the 2007 Karachi bombings, Benazir Bhutto in a letter to President Musharaf written on 16 October 2007 named Hamid Gul as one of the four persons including the current Intelligence Bureau (IB) Chief Ijaz Shah, the then chief minister of Punjab Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi, then chief minister of Sindh Arbab Ghulam Rahim, she suspected were behind the attacks.[32] Gul responded furiously to these claims. He was arrested on 4 November by the military police in Islamabad during President Pervez Musharraf's declared state of emergency.[33]
Gul acknowledged his affiliation with Ummah Tameer-e-Nau.[34] United States government prompted Gul's name in a list of 4 former ISI officers for inclusion in the list of international terrorists that was sent to UN Secretary General, but China refused.[35][36]
In 2008 Gul was informed by a senior official in Pakistan's Foreign Ministry that he had been placed on a U.S. watch list of "global terrorists", along with several others. He was shown a U.S. document that detailed several charges against him, including allegations that he had ties to al-Qaeda and the Taliban. Gul rejected these allegations.[37] On 14 December 2008, President Asif Ali Zardari in an interview with Newsweek described Hamid Gul as a "political ideologue" of terror rather than a physical supporter.[38]
According to the Daily Telegraph, following the death of Osama bin Laden, Gul opined that US forces had killed him in Afghanistan and moved the body to Abbottabad to humiliate Pakistan.[39]
His father was a farmer who served in the British Army.[40] He was survived by his wife, who died in October 2019.[41] He has two sons Umar and Abdullah and a daughter Uzma.[42] His son Abdullah Gul, holds the office of Chairman Tehreek-e-Jawanan Pakistan and Kashmir (TJP).[43] His daughter Uzma is the Chairperson Jammu Kashmir Solidarity Movement & Pak Kashmir Women Alliance.[44]
Hamid Gul suffered a haemorrhagic stroke in Murree.  According to reports, he had been suffering from high blood pressure and headaches for some time.[45] His death was condoled by Former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Former Chief of Army Staff Raheel Sharif, Former Chief of Army Staff Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, Imran Khan and other high officials.[46] Gul is buried at the army cemetery in Westridge, Rawalpindi.
Among his possessions was a piece of the Berlin Wall, gifted to him by the Germans for "delivering the first blow" to the Soviet Union.[39]
(Military)
(Crescent of Excellence)
(Military)
(Star of Excellence)
(Star of Good Conduct)
(War Star 1965)
(War Star 1971)
(War Medal 1965)
(War Medal 1971)
Wiladat-e-Quaid-e-Azam
(100th Birth Anniversary of
Muhammad Ali Jinnah)
1976
(Hijri Medal)
1979
(Democracy Medal)
1988
(Resolution Day
Golden Jubilee Medal)
1990
Bottin (Guglielmo Bottin, born 1977) is an Italian composer, producer, DJ and music scholar, based in Venice, Italy.[1]
His tracks have a clear italo disco and retro-futurist electronic music influences.[2] Before moving to contemporary space disco, he was signed to Italians Do It Better by Johnny Jewel via MySpace in 2008.[3] Bottin was also part of the early synthwave scene playing at Valerie Collective parties and producing remixes for Jupiter.[4] In 2009 he released Horror Disco, a concept album that fused nu disco, cosmic disco and Italian giallo movies soundtracks.[5] In 2014, he collaborated with Steve Strange and Visage on the song Poison Within.[6]
Bottin recently contributed to the soundtrack of Mona Lisa and the Blood Moon by Ana Lily Amirpour.[7]
Easterein  (Dutch: Oosterend) is a village in the municipality Súdwest-Fryslân in the province of Friesland, the Netherlands. It is southeast of Wommels and southwest of Itens, in the middle of Bolsward, Sneek, Leeuwarden and Franeker. The center is situated on the Oosterendervaart, which connects the Wijnsevaart and the Hidaardervaart with each other.
In 2019 the village had 970 residents. The village also includes the hamlets Driehuizen (uninhabited part) Meilahuizen and Schrok. Until 1955 Roodhuis was also part of Oosterend.
The age of the village is unclear, it may have originated when the island on which it was situated, also referred to as Oosterend, had been diked. This was the earliest dike. It is also thought that it was created on a mound before that, but the village itself had several elevations, whether or not they were raised.
Various surrounding villages lay within the island, such as Hennaard, Itens and Lutkewierum. The village became the most important village after the establishment of theGrietenij of Hennaarderadeel. Wommels later took over this position.
In 1378 the place was mentioned as to Aestereynde, in 1402 as to Aesterende, in 1433 as in Oestereynde and in 1505 as Oestereynd. The place name indicates that it was located at the eastern (Oudfries: Aester) end (eynde) of something. In 1991 the official name was changed to Frisian-language Easterein.
Until the municipal reorganization in 1984, Oosterend was part of the municipality of Hennaarderadeel. After this it was part of the municipality of Littenseradiel. Since 1 January 2018, the village belongs to the municipality of Súdwest-Fryslân.
 Media related to Easterein at Wikimedia Commons
Dargomyśl [darˈɡɔmɨɕl] (German: Hoffelde) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Radowo Małe, within Łobez County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-western Poland.[1]

This Łobez County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Washington Monument is the centerpiece of intersecting Mount Vernon Place and Washington Place, an urban square in the Mount Vernon-Belvedere neighborhood north of downtown Baltimore, Maryland. It was the first major monument  to honor George Washington (1732–1799).
The Monument, a colossal landmark column, was designed by American architect Robert Mills (1781–1855), who also designed the later Washington Monument on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Construction began in 1815 on land donated by Colonel John Eager Howard (1752–1827), from his extensive "Belvidere" estate just north of Baltimore Town, and the masonry work was completed by 1829. The 178 foot, 8 inch doric column holds a ground-floor gallery offering digital exhibits about the construction of the Monument, the history of Mount Vernon and Washington Places neighborhood and of the life and accomplishments of General and President George Washington. Climbing the 227 steps to the top provides a view of the city from the historic neighborhood where it is located. Its neighbors and cultural institutions within a few blocks include the Peabody Institute, The Walters Art Museum, the Central Library of the Enoch Pratt Free Library, the Maryland Historical Society with its Enoch Pratt Mansion, the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary (old Baltimore Cathedral), and the Baltimore School for the Arts (public high school).
The glorification of Washington began long before his death at his beloved Mount Vernon estate, along the Potomac River in Virginia in December 1799. The old Confederation Congress (1781–1789 under Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union) had first announced a desire for a sculpture in his honor in 1783 after the end of the War and of General Washington's resigning of his commission and after his death, revived the idea of a memorial. However, these expressions of honor in the national capital floundered and would not be realized for decades. A monument honoring Washington in Baltimore, then an up-and-coming rising town, the third largest in North America, was first proposed as early as 1807, and in 1809 a Board of Managers of private citizens formed to commission and fund the monument intended to be erected in the old former colonial-era Courthouse Square on North Calvert Street, between East Lexington and East Fayette Streets (today's location of the Battle Monument Square, constructed simultaneously 1815–1822). In 1810, the first lottery authorized by the General Assembly of Maryland, was held. In 1813, an architectural competition was announced with a $500 prize to design and build the Monument at a cost of $100,000. Mills's design was chosen in 1814, the architect having taken pains to demonstrate to the Board of Managers that he was the first native born American with architectural training. The cornerstone was laid with great ceremony on Independence Day, July 4, 1815.[1]
Mills's competition-winning designs included rich ornamentation, six iron galleries (balconies) dividing the exterior shaft into seven sections with text and images on each level highlighting important moments in Washington's life. An interior spiral staircase led to the top, where surmounting the column Washington was depicted in a quadriga. Concerns over the expense of this design, as well as its projected height caused later changes in not only its design, but location. Residents of old Courthouse Square feared the tall column would fall on their houses in the event of some natural disaster, so a new location was found in Howard's Woods, north of the city, on the "Belvidere" estate and with a 200 square feet of surrounding land for future public squares/parks, which was donated by noted leading citizen, American Revolutionary War hero, Col. John Eager Howard, (1752–1827) of the famed "Maryland Line" regiment of the Continental Army.
By the time the Monument's cornerstone was laid in Howard's Woods in 1815, Mills had significantly simplified the original elaborate design as depicted in an account of the Fourth of July ceremony.[1] The design of the completed column is very similar to the Colonne Vendôme in Paris, which ultimately derived from Trajan's Column in Rome and was adopted in this time of the increasing popularity of Neoclassicism in American architecture.
The dignified cornerstone ceremony was overseen by the Monument's Board of Managers. Board President and noted citizen, James Buchanan observed that the city of Baltimore had not only "the glory of being the first to erect a monument of gratitude to the father and benefactor of our country," but that it had a "peculiar propriety" in erecting "this first expression of national gratitude," because of its successful defense against the British Army and Royal Navy during the Battle of Baltimore the previous fall.[2]
At the ceremony it was declared that the Monument was to stand as "memorial of the blessings and advantages that our country derived from the character of and conduct of that personage whose name it is to bear, and whose virtues it is to perpetuate." Following speeches, the cornerstone was laid by Levin Winder, then Governor of Maryland and head of the Maryland Freemasons, in a dignified masonic ceremony. The entire proceedings were printed in the local newspaper, picked up by newspapers in other major cities, and published in a souvenir booklet with illustrations.[2]
Almost from the moment the cornerstone was laid, and particularly as the structure began to rise out of the ground (the first marble was laid in 1816), the Monument was a destination and an active memorial. In June 1817, during fifth President James Monroe's visit to the city, his itinerary included a visit to the Monument. Construction sites in the early nineteenth century were not what they are today, and during the building period it is clear the Monument was visited inside and out. As early as 1819 guests were leaving evidence of their visit in the Monument's subterranean vaults. By shortly after 1820 with the column proper largely complete with its integral interior staircase, visitors were already climbing to the top. New York City newspaper editor Nathaniel H. Carter visited in February 1823 and climbed to the top, escorted by a boy with a candle, to take in the views of the city.[3]
The monument, constructed of marble from three quarries further north in Baltimore County, Maryland, rises 178 feet 8 inches and consists of three main elements: a low, square base containing a gallery; a plain, unfluted column; and, atop the column, a standing figure of Washington. The marble was sourced from three quarries: the base from General Charles Carnan Ridgely's (1760–1829), quarry, (near his Baltimore County estate of Hampton Mansion near Towsontown),  the column and other details from Scott's quarry, and the statue from the quarry of Mrs. Frances D. T. Taylor.[4]
Washington is depicted on the top of the Monument resigning his commission as Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, an act which took place in the Old Senate chamber in the Maryland State House in the state capital of Annapolis, Maryland on December 23, 1783. The Confederation Congress was meeting in the Maryland capitol which served for a few months as the temporary national capital. While there, the Congress also ratified the Treaty of Paris of 1783, ending the American Revolutionary War and recognizing the independence of the United States by Great Britain.
The statue was carved by Italian-born sculptor Enrico Causici [fr], who previous to his work on the Monument had been employed carving reliefs for the United States Capitol. William Rusk, in his book Art in Baltimore: Monuments and Memorials, tells the following story about the raising of Causici's marble statue of Washington in 1829. "Tradition recalls a prodigy occurring when the statue was raised to the summit of the monument – a shooting star dashed across the sky and an eagle lit on the head of the settling general."
Details added to the monument in the 1830s include the bronze inscriptions on all facades documenting eight principal events in George Washington's life, including his military and presidential career. Former president John Quincy Adams assisted the monument's board of managers in determining the wording of these events. The interior of the monument was stuccoed at this time and exterior wood doors installed, painted to imitate ancient Roman bronze doors. The cast-iron fence around the base was also designed by Mills and added in 1838. It contains symbolic references to the Maryland and the strength achieved through the union of the original thirteen colonies.[1]
Other memorials to Washington were erected in Maryland and in the nearby national capital, including the one now in Washington Monument State Park (near
Boonsboro, Maryland and the Appalachian Trail), which was first constructed in 1827.[5] The Boonsboro monument as it now stands reflects at least two rebuildings after the structure had fallen into ruin. In 1848 Mills's Washington Monument in the national capital was begun, but it would not be completed and dedicated until 1885. Because of this, for decades the Baltimore Washington Monument served as a leading symbol of American pride and gratitude towards George Washington, as a founding father and the first president of the nation. Mid 19th century maps, for instance, pair the Baltimore column with the Capitol building because the Washington, DC monument had only just begun.
The monument is now open for tourists.
Since 1971, the city has held the annual "Lighting of the Washington Monument" during the first Thursday in December. A holiday village is held prior to the lighting ceremony in the West Square of Mount Vernon Place. Typically, the mayor and his or her family flips the switch for the lights, followed by a fireworks show. After the lighting, the holiday lights remain on the monument until after Christmas Day.
The 49th annual Downtown Partnershop Monument Lighting was held virtually, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[6]
The Monument was closed in June 2010 by the City of Baltimore for safety reasons, according to articles in the Baltimore Sun and Washington Post newspapers. Missing mortar and rusted support brackets were among specific safety concerns. Several months later, a driver ran a 1997 Chrysler van through the southeast corner on October 30, 2010 and damaged roughly 15 feet of the fence.[7] While reports initially indicated the Monument's closure would last three months, it was later determined that reopening would not take place until a renovation was completed. In 2012 the City of Baltimore entered into a partnership agreement with the Mount Vernon Place Conservancy to restore, maintain, and manage the Monument and parks squares of Mount Vernon Place.
The monument has undergone a $5.5 million restoration by the Mount Vernon Place Conservancy which began in January 2014. It was reopened and rededicated on July 4, 2015, in celebration of the bicentennial of the cornerstone being laid.[8]
During the monument's restoration two time capsules were discovered, the Monument's original 1815 cornerstone and a 1915 Centennial time capsule. Although the Monument's cornerstone had long been known to exist, its exact location was unknown. The 1915 Centennial time capsule, however, had been forgotten to time. The first to be discovered, the 1915 time capsule, was a sealed copper box that had been placed behind a plaque in the monument during the centennial celebrations in 1915.  It was discovered in October 2014.[9]
In February 2015, during digging for a sewage tank, a second time capsule, the Monument's original cornerstone, was discovered containing three well preserved glass jars stuffed with and surrounded by newspapers from July 1 and July 3, 1815, the days right before the laying of the cornerstone. The cornerstone was a nearly perfect granite cube with a marble lid, weighing between 1,000 and 1,500 pounds (roughly 450 to 700 kg). Besides the jars, the cornerstone contained a panel carved by local stonemasons and carvers of the time, and is expected to contain additional items, including coins and a metal plate. Like the 1915 capsule, the cornerstone contents were taken to the Walters Art Museum for analysis.[10][11]
The contents of the 1815 cornerstone were fully revealed, and the 1915 time capsule opened, on June 2, 2015, at the Walters Art Museum. Among many interesting artifacts, the 1815 cornerstone contents included a copy of the United States Declaration of Independence printed in the (Baltimore) Federal Gazette on July 3, 1815, the day before the cornerstone was laid. The newspaper was folded open to the page printing the Declaration, and appears to be the last item placed in the stone. This inclusion suggests that to those who built the Monument in 1815, it was not just the first monument to honor America's founding father, George Washington, but also one of the earliest American monuments celebrating American national independence.[12]
The contents of both time capsules can be seen on public display at the Maryland Historical Society, located just 2 blocks from the monument.
The Washington Monument is the centerpiece the public squares of Mount Vernon Place, which comprise the Mount Vernon Place National Historic Landmark District, designated in 1971.[13] The Historic District is in turn within the Mount Vernon neighborhood of Baltimore, and the Baltimore National Heritage Area.[14]
Billie and the Real Belle Bare All is a one-off television programme that aired on ITV2 on 25 January 2010, ahead of the Series 3 premiere of Secret Diary of a Call Girl. The programme, which took place at The May Fair, consisted of Billie Piper, who stars as Hannah Baxter in Secret Diary of a Call Girl, interviewing Dr. Brooke Magnanti, a former call girl who, until November 2009 remained anonymous, known only by the pseudonym, "Belle de Jour."
Magnanti first rose to fame as a blogger who documented her life as a call girl. She later released a series of books, including The Intimate Adventures of a London Call Girl, and writes a column in various newspapers.
The programme starts with Billie Piper entering a hackney carriage, as her character frequently does on Secret Diary of a Call Girl, and driving to the Mayfair Hotel. Whilst in the cab, Piper, through a voice-over, says "the first thing you should know is today, I'm going to meet a whore", a reference to the line in Episode 1 of Secret Diary of a Call Girl,[1] "the first thing you should know about me is that I'm a whore".[2] Piper walks into the Mayfair Hotel and walks across the lobby, heading towards the lift, another direct reference to Secret Diary of a Call Girl. As she enters the hotel the screen splits in two, showing the original scene from Secret Diary of a Call Girl.[3]
The interview was then conducted in the Schiaparelli Suite of the hotel,[4] where Piper and Magnanti discussed her experiences of being a call girl and the social issues surrounding prostitution. Towards the end of the interview Piper asked various quick questions, such as how much Magnanti would earn, to which she replied that she would charge £300 and keep £200 (£100 was given to the agency). She also revealed whilst doing the 'girlfriend experience' she would earn anything from £800 to £1,400.
Piper and Magnanti then took part in a photoshoot on the bed in the suite, and whilst doing so Piper narrated through voice-overs, summarising her thoughts on Magnanti and prostitution itself.
The Guardian stated that Piper's interviewing style was "very much girls on the couch for a cosy chat"[5] and that Piper did not negatively interview Magnanti on topics surrounding prostitution, stating that Piper gave Magnanti a "pretty easy ride".[5] However Sam Wollaston of the same publication gave a more negative review, saying "[Piper's] never interviewed anyone before. To be honest, it shows. She interrupts mid-answer, sometimes when Dr Magnanti is in the middle of saying something quite interesting."[6] Wollaston later satirically stated that "maybe her interviewing style is quite refreshing after the machismo of Humphrys and Paxman".[6]
The episode, which aired from 10:00 pm, attracted 344,000 viewers, a 1.4% audience share.[7] Although Billie and the Real Belle Bare All received moderate ratings considering ITV2 is a digital channel, its rating were significantly lower than any Secret Diary of a Call Girl episode.
Rosimary Souza Primo, better known as Rose di Primo (born 6 March 1955), is a former Brazilian model and actress. A sex symbol of the 1970s, she was one of the most sought after Brazilian models during that time. She is considered to be the inventor of the thong bikini.[1]
Di Primo's career began off at the age of 16 when she won a beauty pageant sponsored by broadcaster Flávio Cavalcanti. At the age of 18, she appeared on the cover of Manchete magazine. She was photographed seated on a motorbike wearing a white bikini.[2] After this, she was known nationally in Brazil and became one of the country's most sought after models of the 1970s. In the 1980s, she posed nude for Playboy, Ele e Ela and Status.[3] At the time, she held the record for appearing on the cover of men's magazines the greatest number of times, and she also starred in a controversial yogurt commercial.[4] She has acted in some films, most notably Os Machões (1972), Uma Virgem Na Praça (1973), Clockwork Banana (1974) and O Padre Queria Pecar.[5]
Kalyani Marella is a representative for India in the sport of Kabaddi. She was a member of the team that won the gold medal in the 2010 Asian games in Guangzhou.[1][2][3]

This biographical article related to Indian sports is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Hugh Wilson McKee (April 23, 1844 – June 11, 1871) was an American naval officer in the 1870s who participated in the United States expedition to Korea in 1871.
McKee was born in Lexington, Kentucky to a military family. His father, William R. McKee, was a US Army colonel who had been killed in action commanding the Second Kentucky Regiment in the Battle of Buena Vista during the Mexican–American War.[1]
Hugh McKee was appointed to the Naval Academy September 25, 1861 and graduated in 1866. His early duty stations included service in the Practice Squadron and aboard the USS Rhode Island, flagship of the North Atlantic Squadron. In 1867–1869, he was assigned to the steam frigate Franklin and steam sloop of war Ticonderoga, both operating in European waters. McKee was promoted to ensign in March 1868.[2]
McKee had attained the rank of lieutenant by March 1870, and was serving in the Asiatic Squadron as an officer of the USS Colorado. He was mortally wounded June 11, 1871, while leading a company of bluejackets over the walls of a Korean fort on Ganghwa Island close by the Inchon beaches during the United States expedition to Korea. Fifteen sailors and Marines received the Medal of Honor for their actions during the battle including William F. Lukes, Alexander McKenzie, Samuel F. Rogers, and William Troy, who attempted to save McKee, as well as Frederick Franklin, who assumed command of McKee's company until relieved.
McKee died on board the USS Monocacy at 5:45 p.m. that afternoon and his body was sent to his ship, the Colorado, the next day.[3]  His remains were later sent to Shanghai and from there to the United States.[4]  He was interred at Lexington Cemetery. He never married and had no descendants. Three ships of the U.S. Navy have been named USS McKee in his honor.
Bryn Amlwg Castle (Welsh: Castell Bryn Amlwg, lit. 'castle on a prominent hill') was an enclosure castle near Anchor, Shropshire, abutting the England–Wales border. It is a scheduled monument, listed in 1930.[1]
This was an enclosure castle of the 12th and 13th centuries, and had towers and a gatehouse.[2] Only earthworks now remain. In 1963 the site was excavated by archaeologists, determining that much of the original ringwork wall structure was composed of wood, and was later replaced largely with stone.[1] The castle's adjacency to the England–Wales border and the former stone fortification shows its historical strategic significance as a border fortification. Its builder is unknown, but its resemblance to Dolforwyn Castle may suggest that Llywelyn ap Gruffudd erected the castle, perhaps in the late 1260s. Archaeological evidence of burning suggests the castle fell or was slighted during the war of 1276-77.[3]
The tripoint of Shropshire, Montgomeryshire and Radnorshire is very close by, located at the confluence of the Nant Rhydyfedw and the Nant Rhuddwr valley. 

This article about a Shropshire building or structure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about an English castle is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Norman S. Case
Republican
Norman S. Case
Republican
The 1930 Rhode Island gubernatorial election was held on November 4, 1930. Incumbent Republican Norman S. Case defeated Democratic nominee Theodore F. Green with 50.53% of the vote.
Major party candidates
Other candidates
Broke Ass Game Show (stylized as Broke A$$ Game Show) is an American television game show hosted by Derek Gaines and David Magidoff. The series premiered on MTV on February 5, 2015.[1][2]
Leon Theo Williams (December 2, 1905 – November 20, 1984),nicknamed "Lefty", was a Major League Baseball player who played pitcher in 1926. He played for the Brooklyn Robins.

This biographical article relating to an American baseball infielder is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kosovo and Russia do not have official relations due to Russia's support for Serbia in the Kosovo issue. However, the relationship between the two nations has been relatively cold, although relations have been warming in recent years.
Following the 2008 Kosovo declaration of independence, Russia immediately took a pro-Serbian stance, and strongly opposed to the independence of Kosovo.[1][2] Opposition against Kosovo's independence since then have been remained even after the end of Vladimir Putin's first term as Russian President.[3]
On 19 February 2009, in response to Hashim Thaçi's information that Russia is planning the recognition of Kosovo.[4] The Minister Lavrov responded on the following day by saying "I think Mr. Thaci is indulging in wishful thinking... Mr. Thaci is the last person to make statements on behalf of the Russian Federation" and that "When discussing the problem of Kosovo, the Russian side confirms that our position remains the same and supports the settlement of this problem in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1244. Our support for Serbia's course of action in defending its sovereignty and territorial integrity also stays firm".[5]
Russian ambassador to Serbia Aleksandr Konuzin told a Belgrade daily in June 2009 that "Russia's stand is rather simple — we are ready to back whatever position Serbia takes (with regards to Kosovo)."[6] Russia has maintained its critical anti-Kosovo independence stance as for 2010s and continue to see it illegal.[7][8]
In March 2014, Russia used Kosovo's declaration of independence as a justification for recognizing the independence of Crimea, citing the so-called "Kosovo independence precedent".[9][10]
The poor relations between two have impacted on the UEFA Women's Euro 2021 qualifying, when Russia women's national football team and Kosovo women's national football team could not meet due to security reasons, and have to play in a selected neutral ground.[11]
Despite there has been no official relationship between two nations due to Russia's alliance with Serbia, thaws in relationship through cultural endeavours have started to be witnessed.
Russia had agreed to allow Kosovo to participate in the 2014 World Judo Championships hosted in Chelyabinsk, in this competition, Kosovo-born Majlinda Kelmendi won Kosovo's historic gold medal in the competition.[12] She later managed to repeat the feat, once again in Russia during the 2016 European Judo Championships, this time in Kazan, which has been greeted with joy by many Albanians as a diplomatic victory toward Russia's open opposition to Kosovo's independence.[13]
Other than judo, Russia also permitted Kosovo to participate in the 2015 World Aquatics Championships, which was considered as an exception.[14]
In 2020 UEFA European Under-19 Championship qualification, the under-19 teams of Russia and Kosovo met for the first time in their opening game, despite no official relations between two nations. The game ended 1–1.[15]
Era Istrefi, a Kosovo-born singer, was permitted to perform the song Live It Up in the 2018 FIFA World Cup held in Russia, was another sign of the increase of cultural ties between two countries.[16]
In September 2020, Kosovo and Serbia agreed for economic normalisation with Donald Trump brokering. Though Russia has openly supported Serbia over Kosovo and has still maintained it, Russia also welcomed the normalisation between two nations, signalling another thaw in problematic Kosovan–Russian relations.[17][18]
Chekrovolü Swüro (born 21 November 1982) is an Indian archer from Nagaland.[1] She represented India in archery in the 2002 Asian Games and 2006 Asian Games held at Busan, South Korea, and Doha, Qatar, respectively. She was a member of the silver medal-winning team in the 2011 World Archery Championships, held at Turin, Italy.[2] By winning a silver medal in the team event at the 2011 World Archery Championships in Turin, she qualified for the 2012 Summer Olympics in both women's individual and team archery.[3][4]
Swüro lives in Chümoukedima, Nagaland. She serves as Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) in the Nagaland Armed Police (NAP). Her elder sister, Vesüzolü S. Vadeo, was a former national archer. She has been competing at the international level for more than a decade, during which she has won many medals. Swüro represented India at the 2012 London Olympic Games. She is the second Naga athlete to participate in the Olympics after a gap of 64 years.[5][6]
2001 12th Asian Archery Championship Hong Kong; Indv. Qtr Final
2002 2nd Asian Archery Championship, China; Indv. Qtr Final
2002 14th Asian Games, Bhusan, Korea ; Indv. Qtr Final
2003 13th Asian Archery Championship, Myanmar; Team
2005 World Archery Championship Madrid, Spain ; Team
2005 Asian Archery Championship New Delhi, India; Team Bronze
2006 Commonwealth Archery Champ. Jamshedpur, India; Team Gold
2006 Asian Games, Doha, Qatar; Participated
2007 15th Asian Archery Championship, China; Team Bronze
2007 World Cup Stage IV, Dover, Great Britain; Team Bronze
2007 World Archery Championship, Dover, Great Britain; Participated
2009 16th Asian Archery Championship, Bali, Indonesia, Team 4th Position
2011 World Cup Stage 2, Antalya, Turkey; Team Bronze
2011 World Archery Championship, Turin, Italy; Team Silver
2011 World cup Stage 3, Turin, Italy ; Team Silver
2012 Summer Olympics in both women's individual and team archery; Participated[10]
Varalakshmi Vratam (Sanskrit: वरलक्ष्मी व्रतम्, romanized: Varalakṣmī Vratam), also called Varalakshmi Puja, is a Hindu observance to propitiate the goddess of wealth, Lakshmi.[1] Varalakshmi is the manifestation of Lakshmi who grants boons (varam). It is a puja primarily performed by married Hindu women in the states of South India.[2][3][4] This occasion is observed on the Friday before the day of the full moon - Purnima - in the Hindu month of Shravana, which corresponds to the Gregorian months of July – August.
The Varalakshmi Vratam is primarily performed by married women (sumangali), for their own well-being, and in order to ask the goddess to bless their husbands with health and longevity.[5][6] Many believe that worshipping the aspect of Varalakshmi on this day is equivalent to worshipping the Ashtalakshmi – the eight aspects of Lakshmi, all of whom represent different forms of wealth.
On this occasion, women worship the goddess Lakshmi with utmost devotion, offering fruits, sweets and flowers, usually a kalasham (representing the deity) is decorated with a sari, flowers and gold jewellery, with offerings placed in front.[7]
The puja begins with the formal welcome of Lakshmi into one's house. A wooden tray or a stand is placed outside the house's threshold. Rangoli is drawn in the puja room, usually inside the house. A kalasham (a brass or silver pot) is placed on the tray outside the house. The pot is decorated with mango leaves as well as flowers. Auspicious items such as rice, betel leaves, turmeric sticks, bananas, and coins are placed inside the pot. A thread dipped in turmeric is tied around the neck of the pot. A coconut scrubbed with turmeric is placed on the top of it. In some traditions, the face of the goddess may be drawn on the coconut, or a brass or silver face may be kept on the pot and decorated with kumkumam, turmeric, and sandalwood powder. During an auspicious hour, the women sing a song of greeting to Lakshmi, and carry the tray and kalasham into the puja room. After lighting the lamp and performing the arati, shlokas, and songs of the goddess are recited. The yellow thread is untied, and a piece is given to each girl or woman to tie around her right wrist. This is symbolic of the conclusion of the auspicious puja, as well as receiving the blessings of the deity. This is also worn to signify protection and piety, and several articles are given as gifts and charity in good faith.[8] In Tamil Nadu, it is a day to prepare four varieties of kolukattai, payasam, and vadai for the naivedyam, or offering. The next day, the Lakshmi puja is performed. Cooked rice, chickpeas, fruit, and betel leaves are offered to all the women who had participated. The face of the goddess is turned towards the west, and the kalasham with its contents placed inside a drum of rice, symbolically keeping the goddess safely inside the house until the next occasion.[9]
The festivities of this occasion often end with the recitation of the vrata katha, the story of the vow that offers it its religious significance.
According to one story, a Brahmin woman named Padmavati, known to be pious and dutiful to her husband, as well as reputed to assist the sick, poor, and the needy, was observed by Lakshmi in the kingdom of Kosala. Greatly pleased, the goddess instructed her to perform the occasion on the given date in the month of Shravana so that she could achieve salvation.[10]
In a similar story, a virtuous and honest woman named Charumati, devoted to her husband and in-laws, receives a dream from Vishnu. The deity tells her to worship the goddess Lakshmi every year during the month of Shravana, which would avail her the blessings of his consort, as well as all forms of wealth.[11]
Some of the rituals that are performed on this occasion are regarded by some scholars to be significant:[12]
The essences of the goddess, indeed of all females, are said to be pasupu and kunkum [sic]. ... Turmeric, though applied to the exterior of the female, to her skin, enlivens her interior life, layering her from within, adding depth and texture. She glows more intensely from within. ... Her self-shining seems also to signal the intensification of coherence and integrity, equalities of selfness, the qualities of depth. . . . Through the essences of turmeric and vermilion, goddess and woman overlap, periodically, momentarily.
A Dog's Journey is a 2012 book written by W. Bruce Cameron and published by Forge Books. It is the sequel to Cameron's 2010 book A Dog's Purpose.[1][2]
Buddy feels as if he has served his purpose by taking care of his deceased master, Ethan when he was alive, and Hannah and Ethan's other family members who live on the Farm. However, when Hannah's granddaughter, a toddler named Clarity June (CJ) comes to visit the Farm with her mother, Gloria, Buddy cannot help but feel that Ethan would want him to help her because her curiosity leads her to dangerous situations and Gloria does not pay attention to her. As a result, Buddy saves CJ from drowning and being trampled by a horse. Instead of admitting that she has been negligent and praising Buddy for his actions, Gloria blames him for each of CJ's predicaments and gets mad when CJ shows him affection. She later leaves the Farm with CJ after becoming angry when Hannah suggests that she take care of CJ so that Gloria can continue her singing career. Gloria wants the child support payments she receives from Hannah's son, Henry. After some time, Buddy dies, thinking that he will not be reborn and that he hopes there will be a dog for CJ because she needs one.
Buddy is reborn, however. He realizes that he is now a female dog and his name is Molly. He tries to understand why he is back and then, one day, he sees Clarity who people now call CJ. She comes with her high school friend, Trent. Trent adopts Molly's brother, Rocky. Molly shows her love for CJ, but CJ says that Gloria will not allow her to have a dog. Not long afterwards, however, she returns and takes Molly home with her, planning to hide her from Gloria. The plan does not work, however, as Molly also tries to show Gloria love and reveals herself. Gloria tries to force CJ to get rid of Molly. CJ fights back by threatening to reveal Gloria's constant neglect of her. Gloria then tries to eliminate Molly herself by trying to kill the dog and then taking it to an Animal Control shelter. CJ rescues Molly both times. She tries to get her away from Gloria by living with other people and then running away to California. As she is still a minor, she has to return home both times. During the fight for Molly, CJ gets in trouble for skipping school and giving Shane, a boy she dates, the key to the art department. He says he wants to get a copy of an upcoming test, but instead commits a more serious crime. CJ tries to get away from Shane, who continues to try to control her, with Gloria's blessings. CJ runs away from Gloria again when she discovers that she has spent the money in CJ's trust fund. CJ was depending on the money to pay for her college education. When she leaves, Shane follows her and she has a car accident. Molly does not survive. As she dies, Molly realizes that she is the dog that was sent to take care of CJ.
Buddy comes back to life again as a small dog named Max. This time he is intent on saving CJ. His devotion to her almost causes his death as he is not nice to other people, so no one wants to adopt him. Finally, he sees CJ who is now a young woman living in New York. She agrees to take him even though she is dog sitting and living in an apartment that is not hers. As it turns out, Trent also now lives in New York and he and CJ reunite. CJ is dating a married man. Trent has a girlfriend. Max recognizes Trent and is nice to him. During this period of her life, things do not go well for CJ and she realizes that she has become her mother. The realization causes her to attempt suicide. Afterwards, Gloria tries to take her back to her house, but Trent intervenes. Upon leaving the hospital, CJ moves in with Trent. He has broken up with his girlfriend and he helps CJ by finding Hannah and arranging a trip to visit the Farm and nursing CJ back to health. CJ finally admits that she loves him in a romantic sense and the two get married. Thanks to Max, Trent is saved from dying of cancer. However, the suicide attempt ruined CJ's kidneys and she has to go on dialysis. She also goes to school and studies psychology. After a long life with them, Max dies, happy to think that they will be okay.
Buddy is born one more time. This time he has the same name he had at the very beginning of his life, Toby, and he is not so anxious to find CJ as he thinks that she will find him when she needs him. His job is to work at a hospice where he comforts dying patients. CJ finally does come. Gloria is suffering from Alzheimer's and is in the hospice. Both CJ and Gloria are much older. Trent has died, but he and CJ lived a happy life. Gloria dies in the hospice with CJ and Toby by her side. CJ comes to work part time in the hospice. Then, one day, she checks herself in after deciding to end her dialysis treatment. She takes comfort in Toby's presence, telling him that he reminds her of her dogs Molly and Max. After she dies, Toby continues to serve his purpose which is to help many people. When he dies, he does not come back. Instead he is greeted by all of his old masters and goes to be with them.
Library Journal called it a "multi-hanky read".[3]
https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/movies/2019/05/17/dogs-journey-boasts-oscar-worthy-animal-performances/1166313001/
Hadiza Lantana Oboh (1959–1998) was a Nigerian pilot. She was the first and only female pilot for Nigeria Airways.[1] She was murdered on 8 February at her house, in a suspected robbery involving members of her domestic staff.[2][3]
Oboh had been flying for another airline for a couple of years before moving to work for Nigeria Airways.[4] She started at Nigeria Airways as Flight Officer on a Boeing 737-200.[2]
Hadiza Lantana Oboh was 39 years old when she was murdered.[2] Police found her decomposed body in the septic tank at her house after arresting her gardener for attempting to sell items belonging to her. Several members of Oboh's domestic staff were accused of murder and released on bail. They disappeared, and later proved to have given false addresses she was murdered.[2][3]

This Nigerian biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sophronica olivacea is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Báguena and Stephan von Breuning in 1958.[1]

This Sophronica article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Agrarian structure is the pattern of land (area group) distribution among landholders (agricultural households).[1][2]

This agriculture article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Adaptive differential pulse-code modulation (ADPCM) is a variant of differential pulse-code modulation (DPCM) that varies the size of the quantization step, to allow further reduction of the required data bandwidth for a given signal-to-noise ratio.
Typically, the adaptation to signal statistics in ADPCM consists simply of an adaptive scale factor before quantizing the difference in the DPCM encoder.[1]
ADPCM was developed for speech coding by P. Cummiskey, Nikil S. Jayant and James L. Flanagan at Bell Labs in 1973.[2]
In telephony, a standard audio signal for a single phone call is encoded as 8000 analog samples per second, of 8 bits each, giving a 64 kbit/s digital signal known as DS0. The default signal compression encoding on a DS0 is either μ-law (mu-law) PCM (North America and Japan) or A-law PCM (Europe and most of the rest of the world). These are logarithmic compression systems where a 13- or 14-bit linear PCM sample number is mapped into an 8-bit value. This system is described by international standard G.711. Where circuit costs are high and loss of voice quality is acceptable, it sometimes makes sense to compress the voice signal even further. An ADPCM algorithm is used to map a series of 8-bit μ-law (or a-law) PCM samples into a series of 4-bit ADPCM samples. In this way, the capacity of the line is doubled. The technique is detailed in the G.726 standard.
ADPCM techniques are used in voice over IP communications. In the early 1990s, ADPCM was also used by Interactive Multimedia Association to develop the legacy audio codecs ADPCM DVI, IMA ADPCM, and DVI4.[3]

G.722[4] is an ITU-T standard wideband speech codec operating at 48, 56 and 64 kbit/s, based on subband coding with two channels and ADPCM coding of each.[5] Before the digitization process, it catches the analog signal and divides it in frequency bands with quadrature mirror filters (QMF) to get two subbands of the signal. When the ADPCM bitstream of each subband is obtained, the results are multiplexed, and the next step is storage or transmission of the data. The decoder has to perform the reverse process, that is, demultiplex and decode each subband of the bitstream and recombine them.

Referring to the coding process, in some applications as voice coding, the subband that includes the voice is coded with more bits than the others. It is a way to reduce the file size.
The Windows Sound System supported ADPCM in WAV files.[6]
The FFmpeg audio codecs supporting ADPCM are adpcm_ima_qt, adpcm_ima_wav, adpcm_ms, adpcm_swf and adpcm_yamaha.[7][8]
The DSP in the GameCube supports ADPCM encoding on 64 simultaneous audio channels.
Werner Wolfgang Rogosinski FRS[1] (24 September 1894 – 23 July 1964) was a German (later British) mathematician.[3][4]
Rogosinski was born in Breslau, into a Jewish family.[5] His father, Hermann Rogosinski was Counsel in Wroclaw. Rogosinski studied at Mary Magdalen School from 1900 until 1913. He attended the University of Breslau, University of Freiburg and University of Göttingen, with Edmund Landau.  His studies were interrupted by World War I, in which Rogosinski served as a medic.
Rogosinski focused his studies on pure mathematics, physics and philosophy. His interest was analytical problems, especially in series. His dissertation, "New Application of Pfeiffer's method for Dirichlet's divisor problem", caused a stir in 1922.
In 1923, he first went to Koenigsberg as a lecturer, and became an associate professor in 1928.
He worked with Richard Brauer, Gábor Szegő and Kurt Reidemeister for five years.
Rogosinski and Szegő families became friends.
His first book Fouriersche Reihen was published in 1930. It provided a student's introduction to the Fourier series.[6]
The original was translated into English in 1950 and is still used.
Rogosinski married in 1928 in Königsberg. In 1932, his son Peter was born. After the Nazi takeover, his fortunes changed. In 1936, his teaching credentials were withdrawn. He was allowed only in some Jewish schools in Berlin. The Cambridge professors G. H. Hardy and John Edensor Littlewood invited him to come to the United Kingdom.
He moved with his wife and child to Cambridge in 1937, with support from the Society for the Protection of Science and Learning.
He published five papers with Hardy from 1943 to 1949, under the title Notes on Fourier series. In 1944 Rogisinski and Hardy published their book Fourier Series,[7] which might be said to be a rewrite, using Lebesgue integral methods, of Rogosinski's 1930 book. 
He was a teacher in Aberdeen in 1941.
In 1945, he became a lecturer at Newcastle University (prior to 1963, King's College, University of Durham). In 1947 he was appointed professor and in 1948 Head of Department.
In 1959, Rogosinski resigned his position at Newcastle.
Svend Bundgaard brought him into the Mathematical Institute at Aarhus.
In 1954, he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society.[1]
In 1962, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences.
His intention was to go to the new University of Sussex. He died after a long illness, aged 69, in Aarhus.
Montana Democratic Party (MDP) is the affiliate of the Democratic Party in the U.S. state of Montana and one of the two major political parties in the state. The party as of 2021 is chaired by Robyn Driscoll.[1] The National Committeeman is Jorge Quintana, and the National Committeewoman is Jean Lemire Dahlman.
The party typically meets in Butte.[2]
In 2017 during a special election for a Congressional seat, state party officials "grew frustrated" according to the New York Times when national Democratic Party officials Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi were implored by Democratic Senator Jon Tester to with-hold from spending national party money on his rival Rob Quist, the Democratic nominee in Montana, without success. Quist ultimately lost the seat to Republican Greg Gianforte.[3]
In January 2020, Sandi Luckey, previously the state party treasurer for the Democratic party, was elected executive director of the Montana Democratic Party. Robyn Driscoll was party chair at that time.[4] The state party announced in May 2020 that it was creating a Steering Committee for the Blue Bench Program, and that it would have three of those positions dedicated permanently for Native American leaders. The Blue Bench Program recruited and developed local candidates to run for office.[5] At that time, the state party's voting delegates largely consisted of legislative leadership, Democrats in statewide elected office, and leaders in Democratic Central Committees for state countries. The party had no delegate votes assigned specifically for Native Americans, and three voting delegates at state conventions who were Native Americans.[6] The Associated Press reported in June 2020 that the state party voted to establish tribal committees to represent the Crow, Northern Cheyenne, Fort Peck, Fort Belknap, Rocky Boy's, Blackfeet and Flathead reservations and the Little Shell-Chippewa tribes,  and the committees would operate "like county central committees, whose delegates vote on the party's platform, rules and officers and nominate candidates for special elections." Luckey, still the state party executive director, said the move made the Montana Democratic Party the first US state country to formally create a formal role based on population for Native Americans.[6]
In February 2022, Democratic senator Jon Tester criticized the larger state party for not doing more to appeal to and engage with "Middle America," clarifying he meant the area between the Appalachians the Rocky Mountains.[7]
In June 2022 NPR reported that Montana had two U.S. House districts for the first time since 1992, and while the Montana Democratic Party had three candidates in that month's primary, it hadn't had representation in the U.S. House since 1994.[8] In August 2022, Montana Democrats meeting in Butte announced a new platform, largely statements of principal, such as supporting abortion rights and declaring a "state of climate emergency." New policy objectives included restoring the Judicial Nominating Commission, recently eliminated by Republicans, and establishing a panel to examine atrocities at the state's former boarding schools for Native Americans. The state party's executive director remained Sheila Hogan, at the only Democrat in statewide or federal office at the time was Senator Jon Tester.[9]
The Montana Democratic Party currently hold none of the six statewide offices and a minority of the seats in both the Montana Senate and Montana House of Representatives. They hold one of the state's U.S. Senate seats.
Hans Albert Oskar Stieber (1 March 1886 – 18 October 1969) was a German conductor, composer and violinist. He was the founding director of the Hochschule für Theater und Musik in Halle an der Saale.
Stieber was born in Naumburg an der Saale in the Prussian Province of Saxony as the eldest of four sons of the lawyer Paul Stieber (1856–1944) and his wife Elsbeth (Else) (1861–1940), née Biermann. His maternal great-grandmother Friederike Komitsch, née Schaffner, was an actress at the Schauspielhaus Berlin and married the actor Ludwig Devrient in her first marriage.[1] His grandfather was the jurist Wilhelm Stieber and worked as a police director, privy councillor and head of the Central-Nachrichten-Bureaus at the Preußisches Staatsministerium [de] in Berlin. His father made it to the 1st director of the Norddeutsche miners association [de]'s pension fund in Halle an der Saale. He also made a name for himself as the founder of a sanatorium. He too was the business manager of the Luther Festival and organised the mountain concerts in Halle.[2] Stieber's brother Paul Devrient (1890–1973) was an opera and concert singer (tenor), especially a sought-after Mozart and Verdi-interpreter.[3]
He was of Lutheran confession and in 1920 married to Gretel Elisabeth, née Runge, who came from East Frisia.[4]
Stieber attended the Stadtgymnasium Halle [de]. As a pupil he was enthusiastic about puppetry, and at the same time he received piano lessons from his father who was interested in music.[1]
His musical interest culminated in 1904 in the recording of a study of music at the University of Music and Theatre Leipzig.[1] He studied violin with the former concertmaster of the Gewandhausorchester Arno Hilf and conducting with the Gewandhaus Kapellmeister Arthur Nikisch, Stephan Krehl (music theory) and Heinrich Zöllner (musical composition). From 1906 to 1908 he continued his studies probably for health reasons [4] at the Princely Conservatory Sondershausen in Schwarzburg-Sondershausen. There he was decisively supported by Carl Corbach [de], the director of the institute. In 1909 he passed his examinations in public. He played the viola in Dvořák's 14th string quartet, conducted an aria from Mendelssohn's oratorium Elija and participated as soloist in the Violin Concerto in E minor of the composer.[1]
From 1908 he was first violinist in the Loh-Orchester Sondershausen. In 1910 he became 2nd violinist of the Anhaltische Philharmonie [de] in Anhalt.[4] After one year, he also became assistant to the court kapellmeister Franz Mikorey [de] and worked until 1915 as répétiteur and choir director at the court theatre. In the summer months he was a violinist at the Kurorchester Bad Kissingen [de] (Bavaria) and Bad Elster (Saxony).[5]
Afterwards, he worked at various German houses: He was opera conductor and concert conductor at the Theater Koblenz (1916) and at the Munich Chamber Opera (1917). At the Opernhaus Kiel, where he worked from 1917 to 1920, he was responsible for the new production of Cherubini's opera Der Wasserträger with recitatives composed by himself. In 1920 he became symphony concert conductor of the Staatskapelle Halle orchestra. He opened the dress rehearsals of the orchestra for the free attendance of school classes.[5]
The premiere of his first opera Der Sonnenstürmer in Chemnitz in 1921 was a great success. His brother also sang in this opera.[6] In the 1920s and 1930s he composed numerous stage and choral works which were premiered in Hanover, Essen, Bremen, Vienna, Leipzig and Breslau.[5] In 1928, the Gewandhaus Quartet premiered his string quartet in F Major.[7]
From 1922 he worked as a freelancer in Hanover for 15 years: Until 1938 he led the Hannoverschen Männer-Gesangs-Verein. 1923 he made his debut in the cupola hall of the Hannover Congress Centrum [de]. As a concert conductor he interpreted a.o. Liszts' Faust Symphony, Bruckner's Symphony No. 5 and Mahler's Symphony No. 2 ("Resurrection Symphony"). In 1924 In 1924 with the Männerchor and the Hannoversche Konzertchor founded by him, the later Singakademie, he performed Pfitzner's romantic cantata Von deutscher Seele [de] to the Hanover premiere.[5]
In 1938, Stieber got a position as dramaturge, musical advisor and conductor at the Leipzig Opera. He was also responsible for the composition of stage and acting music, such as Gutenberg in Mainz, Der Schauspieldirektor, Der Mumanz and Madame Devrient. Stieber became further successor of Gustav Wohlgemuth in the Leipziger Männerchor [de]. 1941 he reorganized the Leipziger Singakademie [de] and became its music director.[8]
During his Leipzig years he also composed symphonic works and cantatas, which were performed under the direction of Hermann Abendroth and Paul Schmitz [de] at the Gewandhaus. The world premiere of his opera Der Dombaumeister took place in 1942 at the Wrocław Opera.[8]
Stieber was not a party member. He belonged to the circle of friends of the Leipzig mayor and resistance fighter Carl Friedrich Goerdeler.[9] He saw himself as a late Romantic. According to Gert Richter (1986), "bourgeois Christian-humanistic traditions" shaped his activity. Stieber's works are "supported by high moral norms". He "did not allow himself to be corrupted by the National Socialist idea or to be pressured into his ethos".[10] In Nazi Germany, Stieber set jubilant National Socialist texts to music.[11]
In June 1946, commissioned by the Soviet Military Administration in Germany, gründete er 1947[12] among others together with Max Schneider, Walther Davisson, Bronisław von Poźniak and Sigfrid Grundeis the Hochschule für Theater und Musik in Halle, which he headed until 1938. From 1948 to 1955 he was professor and director of the master classes for musical composition, conducting and opera dramaturgy. After the transformation of the school into a music institute in 1955, he became emeritus, but continued to work at the institute as a member of the senate and head of department for composition and theory.[9] His students included among others Fritz Ihlau and Manfred Weiss. In addition he rebuilt the Singakademie in Halle as musical director from 1948 to 1953.[9]
Guest conductors have taken him to Prague, Frankfurt am Main, Lübeck, Hanover and Leipzig. He rejected an invitation to the 1951 Music Olympiad in Salzburg. In 1952 he took part in the 1st International Music Congress as a guest of the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde in Vienna. He became a juror at the Society's soloist competition. The Niederrheinische Chormusikfest in Mönchen-Gladbach appointed him to its honorary committee. Stieber was also a member of the Richard-Strauss-Gesellschaft and the Gesellschaft für Musikforschung. On behalf of the Leipzig Musikhochschule he carried out music-dramaturgical research on contemporary opera works. He was also active in the Commission for Music Theatre in the Association of Composers and Musicologists of the GDR [de], for which he also prepared expert opinions. Stieber was an honorary member of the International Association of Wagner Societies and the Hannoverschen Männer-Gesangs-Vereins.[13]
He was also a fruitful composer. He dedicated his Zwiegespräch for violin and viola (1965) to the Soviet violin virtuoso David Oistrakh, who received the score personally during a concert in Halle. He composed his Violin Concerto in D Major for Saschko Gawriloff.[14] He also dealt musically with the works of the sculptor Ernst Barlach. So he became a member of the Ernst Barlach Gesellschaft Hamburg [de] and of the Barlach-Arbeitskreis of the Cultural Association of the GDR.[15]
Stieber died in 1969 of pneumonia in Halle at the age of 83.[13]
Stieber's works are stored in the Stieber Archive of the Stadtbibliothek Hannover [de] and as partially indexed Nachlass (edited by Gert Richter)[16] in the library of the foundation Handel House of the city of Halle.
To his body of compositions belong music-dramaturgical works such as operas, chamber operas und Singspiele, vocal music, including choral music, as well as orchestral and instrumental chamber music pieces. He was also the author of several stage plays.
Within the framework of the Hallische Musiktage, the "Hans Stieber Prize" was awarded posthumously from 1977 onwards at the suggestion of the Association of Composers and Musicologists of the GDR.[13]
The Manly Selective Campus of the Northern Beaches Secondary College is a government-funded co-educational academically selective secondary day school, located in North Curl Curl, a suburb on the Northern Beaches of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Established in 1859 as Manly Public School, the campus caters for students from Year 7 to Year 12; and admission to the campus is based entirely on academic excellence through the Selective High Schools Test. Students seeking enrolment into Years 8 to 11 will be coordinated through the school, and must also sit for the Australian Council of Educational Research (ACER) Higher Ability Selection Test.[3] The school is operated by the New South Wales Department of Education; the principal is Kathryn O'Sullivan.
Manly Campus tops the Northern Beaches on Merit List Rankings in the NSW Higher School Certificate (HSC), and came eighth in the state in 2014.[4] It was placed seventh in the 2010, 2012 and 2021 HSC rankings, a leap from 15th in 2008 and 2009, and 20th in 2007.[5] The graduating class of 2021 is currently the highest achieving cohort on record, achieving a ranking of seventh overall as compared with other NSW state and non-government schools. This peer group is the fifth ever to place Manly in the top ten.
Manly Selective Campus has a long history after being founded in 1859 as Manly Public School, on the corner of Belgrave and Carlton Streets in Manly. In 1882 it was moved to a site in Darley Road, where it operated until 1945, and is the site of the current Manly Village Public School.
1925 saw the school become an Intermediate High School, and became solely a boys school from 1926. The school expanded rapidly and became Manly Junior High in 1944. In 1945, the school moved to the site of the current Balgowlah Boys Campus, and in 1949 had expanded to include senior years.
In 1954 student numbers reached 1200, and the bulk of these students moved to the current site on Abbott Road in North Curl Curl as Manly Boys High School. The school became co-educational in 1983 and was renamed Manly High School, at the same time as the nearby Manly Girls High also became co-educational and was renamed Freshwater High. Manly High was granted selective status in 1990 and was incorporated into the Northern Beaches Secondary College at its founding and given its current name in 2002.
The following individuals have served as Principal of the Manly Selective Campus of Northern Beaches Secondary College:
As of 2021[update] Manly Selective Campus had a student population of 789 students.[6] There were an average of around 130 students in each grade from 7 to 12, although with some variation between grades, with approximately 60 staff members.[7] There was a large degree of ethnic diversity amongst the student population, with 50% of students coming from a home where English is not the primary language.[6]
The Turtalian is a former completely student run weekly magazine which contained articles submitted by students, often focused on intellectual discussion. Around 200 copies were distributed each week on Friday, with special editions providing guides for events such as Pinestock, the school's annual music festival, and sporting events such as cross country, athletics and swimming carnivals. The Turtalian Committee handled the editing, design, and printing of the magazine. 
The concept is currently used as a project-based lesson guided by a teacher.
One of the prominent images associated with Manly Selective Campus are the stands of Radiata Pines planted around the school, giving the name to the school's yearbook, The Pines and the newsletter, The Weekly Pines. Some of these pines have created a problem in a 7,010 m2 area of remnant bushland that lies on the school's property on a steep hill behind the school oval. Seedlings of the original pines grew up in the bushland after more of the radiata pines were planted in close proximity to the bushland in 1954. This bushland is some of the last remaining native Sandstone Heath east of Pittwater Road in Warringah, however sections of it are highly degraded by weeds such as lantana and asparagus fern. In recent years there has been an increasing effort to rehabilitate the heath back to pre-European quality, and in late 2006 many of the pine trees which had seeded in the bushland were removed.
Students are given the chance to participate in various extracurricular activities, only some of which are listed below:
Students of Manly also have participated with others from the NBSC in the College Rock Eisteddfod Challenge, until its cancellation due to a lack of funds.[8][9]
The band program at Manly has three streams and ten ensembles of various levels including the Concert Stream (comprising the Concert Band, Wind Ensemble, and Symphonic Wind Orchestra), the Stage Band Stream (comprising the Swing Band, Stage Band, Big Band, Jazz Orchestra, and Bennett Frerck's Ensemble of Jazz), and the Strings Stream (comprising the String Ensemble and Chamber Orchestra).
Previously, the Band Program also incorporated a Jazz Improvisation stream, which as of 2012 was changed to the "OffBeat" bands spanning all campuses across the Northern Beaches Secondary College. However, the school has been represented on numerous occasions over countless years of the Schools' Spectacular that showcases the student talent of State School students annually.
On 10 August 2017 the Bands of Manly Selective Campus were cited in the NSW Parliament by James Griffen.[10]
Kara Shiraz Football Club is an Iranian football club based in Shiraz, Fars who play in Iran Football's 2nd Division.[1]
The club also runs U21, U19, a women's futsal team.[2]
Kara Shiraz Football Club was established in 2009 by businessmen Ali Bahadori and Samed Ghorbanizadeh. The club started playing in the Fars Provincial League soon after. In spring of 2015 Kara was promoted to the Iran Football's 2nd Division after finishing in first place in Group B of Iran Football's 3rd Division. Kara gained recognition inside Iran in 2015 after they defeated Persian Gulf Pro League side Esteghlal Ahvaz in the Hazfi Cup.
As of 20 September 2015[3]

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
This article about an Iranian football club is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Amarna Princess, sometimes referred to as the "Bolton Amarna Princess," is a statue forged by British art forger Shaun Greenhalgh and sold by his father George Sr. to Bolton Museum for £440,000 in 2003.[1] Based on the Amarna art-style of ancient Egypt, the purchase of the Amarna Princess was feted as a "coup" by the museum and it remained on display for three years.[2] However, in November 2005, Greenhalgh was brought under suspicion by Scotland Yard's Arts and Antiquities Unit, and the statue was impounded for further examination in March 2006.[3] It is now displayed as a part of an exhibition of fakes and forgeries.
In 1999, following some early successes, the Greenhalghs began their most ambitious forgery project yet. They bought the 1892 sale catalogue of the contents of Silverton Park, Devon, the home of the 4th Earl of Egremont, George Wyndham.[4] While the fourth Earl was not known as a collector, previous earls had been: the Praxitelean "Leconfield Head" stands out even among the Greek antiquities at Petworth. One of the Wyndhams who acquired ancient sculptures from Rome might just have obtained, along with other pieces, the Amarna Princess. It was quite plausible then that George Wyndham had amassed a distinguished collection in his own new-built mansion at Silverton.[5] Certainly the auction catalogue notes extended to pages.[6]
Among the lots in the sale were a group lot comprising "a draped figure of a female, five marble statuettes and eight Egyptian figures."[7] The vagueness of the catalogue description was not too surprising for the time, and if any such actual Amarna art had been there, it may well have remained unrecognised.[5] Shaun Greenhalgh was a professional antique dealer and meticulous researcher and must have been well aware of this. While he did not appear to have had access to the internet,[6] he was well used to the trade catalogues and art books and is known to have worked from photographs. Further to the item's natural obscurity, there are only two other similar statuettes existing in the world.[8] These are held in the Louvre[9] and the State Museum of Pennsylvania.[10]
In the event, taking full advantage of the vagueness of the auction notes, Greenhalgh manufactured what became the Amarna Princess, a 52 cm statue, apparently made of a "stunning translucent alabaster."[11] Done in the Egyptian Amarna style of 1350 BC, the statue represents one of the daughters of the Pharaoh Akhenaten and Queen Nefertiti, probable father and stepmother of Tutankhamun. Greenhalgh reputedly "knocked up" his copy in his shed in three weeks out of calcite, "using basic DIY tools and making it look old by coating it in a mixture of tea and clay."[12] A copyist by inclination, his piece was most likely based directly on the known princesses, especially the one in the Louvre. A diagrammatic comparison shows just how close the similarities are, down to the missing limbs.[13] The Amarna Princess being only somewhat taller, by 21 cm (8.3 in).[14]
George Greenhalgh, the forger's father, then approached the Bolton Museum in 2002,[15] claiming the Amarna was from his great-grandfather's "forgotten collection," bought at the Silverton Park auction.[16] His great-grandfather had purportedly bought "one of two" Egyptian statues available.[11]
George pretended to be ignorant about its true worth or value but was careful to provide the letters Shaun had also faked, showing how the artefact had been in the family for "a hundred years."[17] He told them he was "thinking about using it as a garden ornament."[18] And further, he claimed it had been valued at a mere £500.[19]
After their own examination of the Amarna Princess Bolton Museum passed it on to others to evaluate, in accordance with their stated best practices. In the first instance this role fell to Christie's, who valued the statue at £500,000. The British Museum also agreed that it was a genuine piece. It has not been revealed exactly what tests were taken or what criteria used to assess the authenticity of the Amarna Princess, beyond the declaration that provenance played "a vital part in the authentication because there was nothing to compare it with," apart from the Louvre Princess,[20] although in her analysis Angela Thomas, the Egyptology curator of the Bolton Museum, mentioned various other statues from the era as well, most notably the Penn Museum princess.[5] Assessment was also hampered because of the difficulty of testing stone.[21]
More than just impressed by the provenance,[3] experts also concluded that "although its head, arms and lower legs have not survived...the statuette is the most impressive example of its kind in the world."[22] Angela Thomas provided an analysis that suggested a close examination of the item itself. She noted the back pillar which showed that it was "once part of a double statue." Elements of its "extreme style" suggested it was an early era piece, which was enough for her to speculate on which of the six daughters the statue might represent, Meritaten – despite the absence of an inscription, or a head. She concluded the Amarna Princess was of "great significance."[5]
The purchase of the Amarna Princess for £439,767[15] in 2003 made "headlines around the world."[23] The Bolton Museum considered its purchase a "coup," since the statue was purported to be worth closer to a £1 million.[24] The explanation of its apparent cheapness was that the vendor wanted it to stay in Bolton.[5][25]
After the forgery was exposed, there was great interest in the exact source of the funding. It was composed of "£360,000 from the National Heritage Memorial Fund, a further £75,000 from the National Art Collections Fund and £2,500 from the Friends of Bolton Museum and Art Gallery,"[23] plus a further £1,500 from the J. B. Gass Trust. Bolton Museum detailed the financing on their website and gave reassurances that no council money was involved.[20][15]
The Amarna Princess first went on public display in the Hayward Gallery as part of the prestigious "Saved!" exhibition of 2003. Opened by the Queen[26] the exhibition was meant as a "celebration of 100 years of saving art for the [British] nation."[3] Billed as "spectacular," it spanned "4,000 years of art history,"[27] which would have made the Amarna Princess one of the oldest items there, had it been genuine.
On January 31, 2004 the Amarna Princess returned to "pride of place" at Bolton Museum, where it was expected to be a huge draw as the "jewel in the crown" of the Museum's highly regarded Egyptian collection.[23] It was set among other items of the same era, including sculptures. The museum's Egyptian curator, Angela Thomas, speculated "It may even be the case that this will lead on to us getting further funds to do more." As a final ironic note, extra security was installed due to a theft in the museum the week before.[22]
In mid-March 2006 Scotland Yard's Arts and Antiquities Unit impounded the Amarna Princess as part of an ongoing investigation of the Greenhalgh family.[25] 
The Greenhalghs had triggered suspicions when they tried to perform a similar scam again, using the same provenance to support their ownership of what was purported to be an Assyrian frieze.  They were subsequently caught, and both father and sons were charged with laundering the money involved with the Amarna Princess.[28] Shaun Greenhalgh was later convicted in November 2007. On searching their property, police found evidence of tools and material for making sculptures, and two other completed copies of the Amarna Princess.[29]
After the trial, Bolton Museum scrambled to distance itself and described itself as "blameless."[30] The museum insisted that it had followed established procedure,[15] though they called George Greenhalgh "a nice old man who had no idea of the significance of what he owned."[24] As more than one commentator has noted: "We are never more likely to be vulnerable to a cheat than when we ourselves are trying to diddle someone out of a masterpiece."[31]
Councillor Barbara Ronson, of Bolton Council, was "shocked" to learn that the statue was a fake and promised the council would be carrying out its own investigation. "You wonder how something like this could happen with the modern technology available."[23] Stephen Johnson, National Heritage Memorial Fund Director was "extremely shocked." He said "the National Heritage Memorial Fund has not been in this position before in its 26-year history."[25]
Both the National Heritage Memorial Fund and the National Art Collection Fund indicated that they  might seek to recover their monies, as it had not been used for the "Approved Purposes;"[25] while Bolton Museum said the Council, too, expected to receive compensation.[20]
However, the presiding judge, William Morris, exonerated the institution and any Council staff involved, preferring to focus on what he saw as "misapplied" talent and an "ambitious conspiracy," and emphasised the sophistication of the deception.[15][32] One art expert said "the Amarna Princess ... is a reminder that the really good fakes in public and private collections haven't been spotted yet."[21]
In 2011 the statue returned to Bolton Museum, featuring in an exhibition of fakes and forgeries.[33]
Socket SP3 is a zero insertion force land grid array CPU socket designed by AMD supporting its Zen-, Zen 2- and Zen 3-based Epyc server processors,[1][2] launched on June 20, 2017.[3] Because the socket is the same size as socket TR4 and socket sTRX4, users can use CPU coolers not only designed for SP3, but also coolers designed for TR4 and sTRX4.
Socket SP3 is a system in a package socket - that means most features required to make the system fully functional (such as memory, PCI Express, SATA controllers etc.) are fully integrated into the processor, eliminating the need for a chipset to be placed on a motherboard. Variants for desktop platforms (as said below) are, eventually, requiring additional chipset to provide improved functionality of the system. A processor using socket SP3 is mounted by inserting the CPU into a slide and fixing the slide assembly by tightening three screws using the torque wrenches normally provided alongside the motherboard. Automated processor mounting tools in OEMs do not use the slide, instead relying upon the precision movement of the robot arm.
Socket TR4, also known as Socket SP3r2, is used for high-end desktop CPUs. It is physically identical to a normal SP3 socket with some connections disabled.[4] A TR4 socket will prevent the use of CPUs designed for Socket SP3 with an ID pin.[5]
Socket sTRX4, also known as Socket SP3r3, used for third-generation Ryzen Threadripper (Threadripper 3000X) high-end desktop CPUs, is physically identical to the normal SP3 socket with some connections disabled, and is the successor to Socket TR4 (SP3r2).[6]
Socket sWRX8, also known as Socket SP3r4, is used for Ryzen Threadripper Pro 3000WX and Ryzen Threadripper Pro 5000WX workstation desktop CPUs. It is physically identical to the normal SP3 socket, with some connections repurposed.[7]
Władysławowo [vwadɨswaˈvɔvɔ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Łabiszyn, within Żnin County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.[1] It lies approximately 8 kilometres (5 mi) north of Łabiszyn, 23 km (14 mi) north-east of Żnin, and 13 km (8 mi) south-west of Bydgoszcz.


This Żnin County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bulimia Banquet was an American punk band with members from Downtown Los Angeles, Hollywood, Hermosa Beach, and El Segundo, California, United States. They formed in 1986. Fronted by guitarist Ingrid Baumgart and bassist Jula Bell, the band is regarded as one of the forerunners of the riot grrrl movement of the 1990s. The band released two albums and disbanded in 1991.
Bulimia Banquet traces its roots to an earlier band, Minions of Parody, which existed in Southern California in 1985.[1] The band featured two future members of Bulimia Banquet — bassist and vocalist Jula Bell and guitarist Alan Hansford.[1]  Bell, an opera aficionado who studied the musical form at Boston University and USC, began playing informally with guitarist Ingrid Baumgart.[1] When another guitarist and drummer was needed, the duo called upon Hansford and Greg Cameron (SWA). The band Bulimia Banquet was born in 1986.[1] They then had Nick Passiglia (Nip Drivers) playing drums for a few gigs, until they hired Jason Greenwood to play drums. Greenwood was formerly of the San Francisco band Playing Under the Influence and was only 15 when he joined the band[1]
Bulimia Banquet's lyrics were primarily written by its female vocalists, Baumgart and Bell, with all members of the band contributing to the writing of original music.[1]
Bulimia Banquet is recognized for pioneering the riot grrrl movement of the 1990s, and is featured in a 1995 documentary film by Lisa Rose Apramian, Not Bad for a Girl.[2]
The band played an intense style, which it described in a 1987 Flipside interview as "silly, fast, rockin', wild."[1] The band was dismissive of all-women bands that took a soft, melodic pop approach, as band leader Jula Bell noted:

"Stupid, feathery girl bands — I hate that. We've seen all of that. I don't want people looking at me for my body, looking at me going, 'Look at that, I want to fuck that.' I'm not up there for that.... It's not right. If we want an egalitarian world you gotta be androgynous.... I'm not talking about the new wave androgyny, I'm talking girls are tough, and guys...can be feminine. There's a balance."[1]Mia Ferraro, Dez Cadena, Steve Drojensky, and Travis Johnson were also in the band for a period of time.[3]
Bulimia Banquet released two albums, a single, and tracks for compilation albums. The band's final release appeared in 1991.
Jula Bell has been featured in a number of other local bands[4] including Nip Drivers, Bobsled, and Marc Spitz Freestyle. She has done punk rock autoharp solo gigs and has also played autoharp in the L.A. based rock group, Miss Derringer.[5] Ingrid Baumgart was in the all female punk band, Raszebrae and Malicious Grind.[6] Bell was featured singing with Devo in the Tank Girl film in 1995, in the opening sequence song "Girl U Want".[7]
Jason Greenwood was also in the T.V.T.V's (Flipside Records) and Punk Rock Vato's with Jamie Pina (Chemical People), Pat Hoed (aka. Adam Bomb), and Rick Agnew (the Adolescents, Christian Death). In June 2018, Greenwood died of a drug overdose at the age of 46.
Julius Hurtig (October 18, 1868 – March 9, 1928) was an American vaudeville and theatre producer.
He was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, the son of Metta and Daniel Hurtig, who were German immigrants.  In his youth he joined the Barnum and Bailey Circus, and then became a producer of pyrotechnical shows.[1]
He linked up with fellow producer Harry J. Seamon (1865–1938), and they became established as vaudeville promoters and producers.  The partnership of Hurtig and Seamon worked in New York from at least 1899.   Among their most successful acts was the pairing of Bert Williams and George Walker.[1]  Often with Seamon, Hurtig also produced, and occasionally directed, Broadway shows, including In Dahomey (1903, for which he was credited as McVon Hurtig, and which featured Williams and Walker),[2] Me, Him and I (1904), and In New York Town (1905).[3]
Hurtig and Seamon pioneered the development of burlesque entertainment, and leased theatres in Ohio as well as the Harlem Music Hall in New York.[1]  In 1913, they leased a newly constructed theatre building in Harlem, initially known as Hurtig & Seamon's New Theater, to accommodate the burlesque productions of the Columbia Amusement Company, which they had joined.  Opened only to white patrons in its first few years, it began admitting black patrons in the 1920s, and later became the Apollo Theater.[4]
Jules Hurtig died in 1928, at the age of 59, from a heart attack while on a sea voyage.[5]
Architecture was a monthly magazine on architecture, established by A. Holland Forbes[1]
in 1900 with its first issue dated January 15.[2]
Each issue was lavishly illustrated with photographs and architectural drawings. The magazine was published by Forbes & Company, Ltd., initially located at 160 Fifth Avenue, New York,[2] and beginning with the issue of May 15, 1907, at 225 Fifth Avenue.[3] A. Holland Forbes was listed on the masthead as the editor until June 15, 1903, when these duties were taken over by a Board of Architects "in the interests of the profession."[4]
In the July 1917 issue, it was announced that Charles Scribner's Sons had purchased Forbes & Company, Ltd., and that Architecture would thereafter be published by them.[5] The last issue appears to have been published in May 1936.[6]

This article relating to an architectural magazine is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.See tips for writing articles about magazines. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
Backdraft is the second studio album from Fallstar, released by Facedown Records on April 16, 2013. Fallstar worked with Kris Crummett in the production of this album.
Awarding the album four stars from HM Magazine, Sarah Brehm states, "Fallstar’s Backdraft is metalcore at its heart, but still seamlessly pulls from a myriad of genres—melodic hardcore, punk, rap-rock, electronic—to create an album that’s hard not to like."[3] Mark Sherwood, rating the album a seven out of ten for Cross Rhythms, writes, "overall a strongish album."[1] Giving the album four and a half stars at Jesus Freak Hideout, Michael Weaver says, "Fallstar has produced a solid product in Backdraft."[5] Timothy Estabrooks, awarding the album four stars for Jesus Freak Hideout, states, "Backdraft is a phenomenal release from a band that really deserves a lot of recognition right now."[6] Lee Brown, giving the album four stars at Indie Vision Music, writes, "With Backdraft, they have grown musically, vocally, and as song writers."[4] Rating the album a four out of ten from Exclaim!, says, the band "stray from having any significant singles or memorable solos rise to the forefront, although the album as a whole stands against the grain within their particular genre."[2]


This 2010s metal album–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Major General Bertram Frank Armstrong DSO[1] (1893 – 1972) was a South African General officer.  He was the commanding officer of the 5th South African Brigade in the Western Desert Campaign in North Africa during World War II.[2]
General Armstrong joined the Natal Police in 1910 and was transferred to the South African Mounted Rifles in 1913.[1]
He served in the British Army during World War I, but returned to the Union Defence Force in 1919. In 1923 he was shifted to the Garrison Artillery, and became the commanding officer in 1933.[1]
At the outbreak of World War II, he served as Major General and commander of Natal Command and later as commander of 5th South African Brigade in North Africa. During this period he was taken prisoner of war. After his escape in 1944, he served as commander of Witwatersrand Command.[1][3]
He later served as Quartermaster-General and Chief of the General Staff.[1]
He retired on 28 January 1953.[1]
Nathaniel Kirtman III (born June 6, 1971) is an American businessperson and former American football player.[1][2] As of 2021[update], he is a consultant for Blue Green Technologies.[3] Previously, he was senior vice president for corporate public relations at NBC Entertainment.[1]
Kirtman went to Saint Mary's College High School, a private school in Berkeley, California.[4] He then attended Pomona College, where he majored in government and played football for the Pomona-Pitzer Sagehens. He graduated in 1992.[4][5]
Kirtman was drafted in the ninth round of the 1992 NFL Draft by the Dallas Cowboys.[6]
Kirtman began working for NBC Entertainment in 1998.[1] Between 2002 and 2006, he worked for General Electric.[1] He then returned to NBC, and in 2012 was promoted to senior vice president for corporate public relations.[1] He left NBC in 2015.[1] As of 2021[update], he is a consultant for Blue Green Technologies, a water technology company that seeks to prevent algal blooms.[3] He is a member of the California Lottery Commission,[7] and was previously its chair.[1] He is also on the board of trustees of Pomona and St. Mary's.[7]
As of 2012[update], Kirtman lives in the Sherman Oaks neighborhood of Los Angeles.[8] He is a Democrat.[8]

This biographical article relating to an American football player, coach, or other figure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about an American businessperson born in the 1970s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 1972–73 Gold Cup was the 54th edition of the Gold Cup, a cup competition in Northern Irish football.[1]
The tournament was won by Linfield for the 25th time, defeating Portadown 2–0 in the final at Castlereagh Park.[2][3]
[4]
Shahnaz is a Bangladeshi film actress. She acted in Sotter Mrittu Nei in 1996 where her co-star was Salman Shah.[1]
Susi Weigel (1914 - 1990), born in Austria, was a illustrator and animator.[1] Weigel illustrated 45 children’s books including many by Austrian writer Mira Lobe.[2][3] Kindergarten Susi Weigel, a kindergarten in Bludenz, Austria, is named after her.[2][4][5]
This article relating to an animator is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Guillermo Cisternas (16 March 1891 – 25 January 1941) was a Chilean footballer. He played in two matches for the Chile national football team in 1917.[1] He was also part of Chile's squad for the 1917 South American Championship.[2]

This biographical article related to Chilean football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 1972–73 Carlsberg Cup was the 1st edition of the Carlsberg Cup, a cup competition in Northern Irish football.[1]
The tournament was won by Portadown, defeating Ards 3–0 in the final at Windsor Park.[2]
[3]
The 2020 College Basketball Invitational (CBI) was a planned single-elimination men's college basketball tournament to consist of 16 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I teams that did not participate in the 2020 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament or the NIT. This event would have marked the 13th annual tournament. On March 11, the tournament was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[1]
27°19′46″N 89°3′48″E﻿ / ﻿27.32944°N 89.06333°E﻿ / 27.32944; 89.06333
The Torsa Strict Nature Reserve[1]
(officially Jigme Khesar Strict Nature Reserve)[a]
in Bhutan covers 609.51 square kilometres[b] in Haa District, occupying most of its area. Founded along with other national parks in 1993 by decision of the royal government,[2] It borders Sikkim and Tibet to the west and is connected to Jigme Dorji National Park via a "biological corridor." Torsa SNR contains the westernmost temperate forests of Bhutan, from broadleaf forests to alpine meadows and the small lakes of Sinchulungpa, at altitudes ranging from 1,400 metres (4,600 ft) to 4,800 metres (15,700 ft). Like Phibsoo Wildlife Sanctuary, Torsa SNR has no resident human population.[5]
This diverse ecosystem, home to various endangered species such as the Tibetan Snow Cock, Red Panda, Snow Leopard and Rufous Necked Hornbills, also grows in the reserve the only endemic poppy, the White Poppy.[6]
The Amo Chu river that flows in from Tibet's Chumbi Valley is called Torsa Chu after it enters the Torsa SNR.[7]
This article related to a protected area in Asia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Norman Henry Gibbs (17 April 1910, in London – 20 April 1990, in Witney, Oxfordshire) was Chichele Professor of the History of War at Oxford University for 24 years from 1953 to 1977, the longest tenure of all who have held the chair since its establishment in 1909.[1]
Gibbs was an Open Exhibitioner at Magdalen College, Oxford, in 1928, becoming Senior Demy in 1928. After completing his bachelor's degree, he continued his graduate studies at Magdalen and while doing so was appointed assistant lecturer at University College, London in 1934–36. In 1935, Gibbs completed his D.Phil. thesis in medieval history under the direction of K. B. McFarlane on 'The history of Reading in the later Middle Ages, considered with special reference to the importance of the gild merchant in mediaeval seigniorial boroughs. In 1936, he was appointed tutor in modern history at Merton College, Oxford.[2]
At the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, Gibbs joined the 1st King's Dragoon Guards. During his military service, he first developed an interest in military history. In 1943, he was one of the first officers to be seconded to the Cabinet Office, at the beginning on the work to write the official history of the war.
While in the Cabinet Office, Gibbs wrote a study on British troops in Egypt during the pre-war years and their preparedness for the campaign against German troops under General Erwin Rommel in the Western Desert. Completing that work, he went on to be an assistant to Professor W. K. Hancock and wrote a detailed study on the structure of the British government and its relationships to the armed forces from 1850 through the Second World War. After demobilisation, Gibbs returned to his fellowship at Merton College, Oxford, where he taught modern history and philosophy, politics, and economics (PPE). In 1952, he published a revised edition of A. B. Keith's British Cabinet Government, making significant additions on the history of the British War Cabinet. At this time, he began working on the first volume of the official history of Second World War in the Grand Strategy series [1], to be entitled Rearmament Policy.
Gibbs's election to the Chichele Chair at the age of 42 marked a turning point in the study of military and naval history at Oxford. All of his predecessors had been career military men, self-trained historians, or journalists. Not only was Gibbs one of Oxford's own academic historians, he was one of the few already established historians in Britain to have direct experience of the most recent historical research and writing within the British armed forces. His appointment marked a very important change by which war history became a respectable academic field and allowed Oxford to play a major role in the development of military and strategic studies throughout the Cold War era, providing additionally an important academic link between Oxford and the armed forces.
Gibbs's tenure in the chair developed on three lines: First, he continued the research and writing that he had begun in the Cabinet Office. Second, he promoted closer and more direct educational relationships between Oxford and the armed forces, contributing to better civil-military relations. Third, while primarily interested in military history and naval history, he promoted the development of the new field of strategic studies.
Norman Gibb's Inaugural Lecture as Chichele Professor of the History of War was devoted to The Origins of the Committee of Imperial Defence. It quickly became a basic reference for generations of his graduate students.
In his work with the uniformed services, he established with a series of courses for officers of the Royal Air Force to qualify them for further studies at the staff college level. Gibbs's success in this, led him to expand his teaching to include senior officers and to encourage the services to second officers from their regiments to read for undergraduate degrees at Oxford.  This led the Admiralty to appoint Gibbs to its Naval Educational Advisory Council, which saw him rise to become its vice-chairman and then chairman.
In 1965, Gibbs established an annual series of NATO conferences at St. John's College, Oxford, which brought academics together with senior NATO officials and the Supreme Allied Commander, Europe each summer.
With Professor Max Beloff, Gibbs began a series of seminars that were the earliest contributions to strategic studies in the United Kingdom.  With Piers Mackesy, he taught the undergraduate special subject in military history and took on the supervision of a wide range of graduate students. In addition, he managed the newly established Visiting Fellows programme at All Souls College, Oxford.
He served on the council of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, the council of the Royal United Services Institute and was a research associate at the Center of International Studies at Princeton University in 1965–66. He was visiting professor in the Department of History at the University of New Brunswick in 1975–76; the United States Military Academy in 1978–79, and the National University of Singapore in 1981–82.
In 1979, the Superintendent of the United States Military Academy, General Andrew Jackson Goodpaster awarded Gibbs the U.S. Army's Outstanding Civilian Service Medal for the superb quality of his teaching and in recognition of his many contributions as Chichele professor to military education.[3]
Among his graduate student pupils who later become well known were Colin S. Gray, John B. Hattendorf, Robert S. Jordan, Malcolm Murfett, Robert O'Neill, George C. Peden, N.A.M. Rodger, Charles S. Townshend, and Jehuda L. Wallach.[4]
Mount Yoko (横山, Yoko-yama) is located in the Hidaka Mountains, Hokkaidō, Japan.
The mountain has three peaks:

This Hokkaidō location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Susan M. Natali is an American ecologist. She is the Arctic program director and senior scientist at the Woodwell Climate Research Center (formerly Woods Hole Research Center), where her research focuses on the impact of climate change on terrestrial ecosystems, primarily on Arctic permafrost.[1] She is also the project lead for Permafrost Pathways, a new initiative launched in 2022 with funding from TED's Audacious Project. On Monday, April 11, 2022, Dr. Natali gave a TED Talk introducing the Permafrost Pathways project[2] at the TED2022 conference in Vancouver, BC. 
Sue Natali was born on July 18, 1969, and was raised in Elmwood Park, New Jersey. She has three sisters and a brother. In 1991, Natali graduated from Villanova University, where she received a B.S. in biology, and in 2008 she completed her Ph.D. in ecology and evolution at Stony Brook University.[1] Natali worked with academic advisors Manuel Lerdau and Sergio Sañudo-Wilhelmy at Stony Brook University while pursuing her Ph.D., and wrote her thesis on the "Effects of Elevated CO2 on Trace Metal Cycling in Plants and Soils".[3]
After completing her Ph.D. in 2008, Natali became a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Florida, where she was employed as a postdoctoral associate until 2010.[1] From 2010 to 2012, Natali was appointed as a postdoctoral research fellow of the National Science Foundation Office of Polar Programs.[1] Afterwards, Natali joined the Woods Hole Research Center (now Woodwell Climate Research Center) as an assistant scientist, and in 2015 was appointed as an associate scientist, where she currently conducts research.
Notably, Natali tested how periods of warming and the thawing of tundra permafrost might impact the carbon cycle.[1] In 2015, Natali conducted an experiment in the Arctic tundra to examine the impacts soil drying has on the release of carbon and methane into the atmosphere.[1][4][5] She found that the drying of tundra soil drastically increases the amount of carbon and methane emitted into the atmosphere as permafrost thaws.[5] Natali's research has been publicized by the New York Times and CBS News.[6][7]
Natali strives to bring the thawing of permafrost and its adverse impacts to the public eye, and has done so through participation in interviews and speaking on public radio programs.[8][9] She also works as a leader of the Polaris Project,[8] which is an initiative to engage undergraduate students in research of Arctic permafrost.[10] The project is funded by the National Science Foundation.[11] Natali was also invited to speak at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference about the importance of recognizing permafrost as a significant contributor to carbon emissions and climate change.[11]
These are some of Natali's most cited publications:
In 2006, Natali was awarded the Association for Women in Science Ruth Satter Predoctoral Award. From 2006 to 2007 she was granted a U.S. Department of Energy Global Change Education Program graduate fellowship. The National Science Foundation elected Natali as a graduate research fellow from 2004 to 2008, and as a Polar Programs Postdoctoral research fellow from 2010 to 2012.[1]
The People's New Party (国民新党 Kokumin Shintō, PNP) was a Japanese political party formed on August 17, 2005, in the aftermath of the defeat of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's Japan Post privatisation bills which led to a snap election. On March 21, 2013, party leader Shozaburo Jimi announced that he was disbanding the party.
The Kokumin Shinto, originally headed by Shizuka Kamei, included former lower house speaker Tamisuke Watanuki, former Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) lower house members Hisaoki Kamei, Tadahiro Matsushita, and House of Councillors members Kensei Hasegawa from the LDP and Tamura Hideaki from the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), the main opposition.
Most of the members of the Kokumin Shinto were formerly members of the Shisuikai (also known as Kamei Faction) of the LDP. Their strong links to the postal lobby forced them to go against Koizumi's plans to privatise the postal system. While Watanuki was made party leader, Kamei was also seen as a public face for the party.
In the 2005 snap election, the party was able to retain four seats, matching the pre-election total, with two single-seat members (Watanuki and Shizuka Kamei) and two proportional members (Hisaoki Kamei and new member Masaki Itokawa). However, the overwhelming victory of the LDP, with a new two-thirds majority in the lower house, made it unlikely that they would be able to exert influence on government policy.
In June 2007, party head Shizuka Kamei announced that former President of Peru Alberto Fujimori would be running for a seat in the House of Councillors under the banner of the People's New Party. At the time of the initial announcement, Fujimori was under house arrest in Chile pending the outcome of an extradition hearing to decide whether he would be returned to Peru to face charges of corruption and human rights violations there. On 11 July 2007 Chilean Judge Orlando Alvarez ruled against the extradition; however, Fujimori remained under house arrest, and was unable to return to Japan for his campaign. He would ultimately fail in his bid.[1][2][3]
After the 2009 general election, on 16 September 2009, a new government was formed; the PNP became a part of the ruling coalition led by the DPJ.[4] After that the party suffered in the next Councillor election and general election.
People's New Party was described as having a far-right political position.[5][6] The party was initially almost exclusively defined by its opposition to Koizumi's "dictatorial" (独裁的, dokusaiteki) politics as expressed in the post privatisation debate. Eventually their platform was broadened to include ideals of serving and protecting the people, and engaging in "warm, friendly politics".[citation needed]
On March 21, 2013, party leader Shozaburo Jimi announced that he was disbanding the party. At that time only Jimi and Kazuyuki Hamada remained as diet representatives.[7]
 Conservatism portal
The Khomic languages are a branch of Kuki-Chin languages proposed by Peterson (2017). They are spoken mostly in southern Chin State, Myanmar and in southeastern Bangladesh.
Khomic languages include (Peterson 2017):
This is a list of films encoded in the SDDS sound format with eight channels of sound, rather than the usual six.
The first film to use this format was Last Action Hero (1993),[1] and the last was Surf's Up (2007).[2]
Tabidia aculealis is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by Francis Walker in 1866. It is found in Indonesia (Sula Islands,[1] Java) and Sri Lanka.
The larvae feed on the leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas). They feed on the mesophyll from the inner side of the rolled leaf.[2]

This Spilomelinae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Baltic Women's Basketball League (BWBL) is a top-level regional basketball league, featuring women's teams from Belarus, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Ukraine. Teams from Finland, Kazakhstan, Latvia and Sweden have competed in the past seasons.
The Keystone Junior Hockey League (KJHL) is a Junior 'B' ice hockey league in the province of Manitoba, Canada. The league, sanctioned by Hockey Manitoba, was formerly known as the Manitoba Junior 'B' Hockey League.
The KJHL champion used to play the champion of the Northwest Junior Hockey League (NJHL) for the Baldy Northcott Trophy. Since the demise of the NJHL in 2004, the KJHL has been the only Junior 'B' league in the province; thus its champion has been awarded the provincial title. The provincial champion moves on to compete for the Western Canadian Junior 'B' championship, the Keystone Cup.[1]
In 2018, five southern teams of the KJHL announced they were leaving and forming their own league, the Capital Region Junior Hockey League (CRJHL). The five departing clubs Arborg Ice Dawgs, Lundar Falcons, North Winnipeg Satelites, Selkirk Fishermen and St. Malo Warriors cited travel costs as well as parents expressing concerns for bus travel in light of the 2018 Humboldt Broncos bus tragedy.[2][3] The Fisher River Hawks also announced they would be taking a one-year leave of absence from the league.[4]
The league added another team after their 2019 AGM with the NCN Flames joining for the 2019–20 season.[5] NCN Flames last competed in the Northwest Junior Hockey League in 2004 winning two league championships and one Baldy Northcott Trophy (2002).
The league added a sixth franchise in the PBCN Selects (Peter Ballantyne Cree Nation) at their 2022 AGM. Selects play out of the historic Whitney Forum out of Flin Flon, Manitoba.
The following AGM the league announced the addition of a seventh franchise for the 2023–24 season.  The Waywayseecappo Wild will be the new franchise.
Warriors - 4th of 4
Juniors - 4th of 4
Georges Hilbert (1900–1982) was a French sculptor.[1] He became a member of the Académie des Beaux-Arts in 1973.[1]

This article about a French sculptor is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Duas Igrejas - Miranda railway station was the terminus of the Sabor line, which served the town of Miranda do Douro, in the Bragança District of Portugal.
The old station is located about 10 km from Miranda do Douro.[1] The building was constructed in the traditional Portuguese style.[2]
The station is decorated with azulejos produced at the Sant'Anna factory in Lisbon, illustrating period scenes from daily life in Trás-os-Montes.[3]
In 1899, the technical commission that was tasked with studying the plan for complementary lines north of the Mondego proposed a broad gauge line from Pocinho to Miranda do Douro,[4] which served the iron mines of Reboredo and the marble and alabaster quarries of Santo Adrião in Vimioso, then on to the border for a later connection via Zamora and Valladolid.[1] This line was partially classified as metric track by the railway plan, decreed on 15 February 1900, and its construction was approved in 1905.[1]
At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 10 January, 1934, the draft contract for contract no. 3 of the Sabor line was approved, corresponding to the section between Urrós and Duas Igrejas, and this station was to have road access and a telephone connection.[5]
The section between Mogadouro and Duas Igrejas - Miranda was opened for operation on 22 May 1938,[6] by the Portuguese National Railway Company.[1] A special train was organized for the ceremony.[1]
A decree published in Diário do Governo n. 159, Series 2, of 12 July 1938 authorized the expropriation of land for the installation of an access road to the Duas Igrejas station.[7]
In the General Plan of the Railway Network, published by Decree No. 18:190 of 28 March 1930, the intention to continue the Sabor Line beyond Duas Igrejas to Vimioso, to serve the quarries, was resumed.[8]
Two routes were planned for this section, one through the Vale de São Pedro da Silva, and the other passing near Miranda do Douro, Malhadas and Caçarelhos.[1]
The Sabor line was closed on 1 August 1988, leading to the abandonment of the Duas Igrejas - Miranda station.[9][10]
The Big Sandy Power Plant is a 268 megawatt (MW), natural gas power plant owned and operated by Kentucky Power Company, a subsidiary of American Electric Power (AEP), on the shores of the Big Sandy River near Louisa, Kentucky. It was established in 1963.[1] It was formerly a coal-fired power plant, but was converted to natural gas in 2016.
In January 2009, Sue Sturgis of the Institute of Southern Studies compiled a list of the 100 most polluting coal plants in the United States in terms of Coal Combustion Waste (CCW) stored in surface impoundments like the one involved in the TVA Kingston Fossil Plant coal ash spill.[2] The data came from the EPA's Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) for 2006, the most recent year available.[3]
Big Sandy Plant ranked number 40 on the list, with 915,079 pounds of coal combustion waste released to surface impoundments in 2006.[2]
Big Sandy Plant's Fly Ash surface impoundment is on the EPA's official June 2009 list of Coal Combustion Residue (CCR) Surface Impoundments with High Hazard Potential Ratings. The rating applies to sites at which a dam failure would most likely cause loss of human life, but does not assess of the likelihood of such an event.
The data came from the EPA's Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) for 2006, the most recent year available.[3]
In 2011, Big Sandy's owner AEP announced plans to switch from coal to natural gas to reduce fuel costs, greenhouse gas emissions, and airborne toxins. In 2012, AEP proposed a billion dollar upgrade to allow it to continue to burn coal and asked Kentucky regulators to approve a 30 percent increase in electricity rates to pay for the work.[4]
Conversion to natural gas was completed on May 30, 2016.[5] The station's Unit 2 cooling tower was demolished via implosion on September 24, 2016.[6]
Chaerocina mbiziensis is a moth of the  family Sphingidae. It is known from Tanzania.

This Macroglossini-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Josip Uhač (Italian: Giuseppe Uhac; 20 July 1924 – 18 January 1998) was a papal diplomat and secretary of the Congregation for the Evangelization of the Peoples.
Uhač was born in Brseč (Moschiena) in what is now Croatia. He was educated at the seminary of Fiume, the seminary of Venice,  the seminary of Gorizia, and the Pontifical Roman Seminary in Rome. He also attended the Pontifical Lateran University in Rome from 1945 to 1954 where he revived a doctorate in theology in 1951 and a doctorate in canon law in 1954. While at the Pontifical Lateran University he concurrently studied at the Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy in Rome where he studied diplomacy.
He was ordained to the priesthood on 16 April 1949 in Rome. After his ordination in Rome he did pastoral ministry in the church of S. Girolamo degli Illirici and further studies, 1949-1954. He joined the Vatican diplomatic service on 1 March 1954. He served as secretary of the nunciature in Panamá. He was created a Privy chamberlain supernumerary on 25 March 1955. He served as secretary of the nunciature in Egypt, auditor of the nunciature in Germany, of the nunciature in Spain. He was named counselor of the nunciature in 1967-1970. He was created Prelate of honour of His Holiness on 16 February 1967.
He was appointed Titular Archbishop of Tharros and Apostolic Pro-Nuncio to Pakistan on 23 June 1970 by Pope Paul VI.[1] He was consecrated on 5 September 1970 in Rijeka by Viktor Buric, Archbishop of Rijeka-Senj, assisted by Dragutin Nežic, Bishop of Porec i Pula, and Josip Pavlišic, Coadjutor Archbishop of Rijeka-Senj. 
He was appointed Pro-Nuncio to Cameroon and Apostolic Delegate to Equatorial Guinea on 7 October 1976.[2]
He was given the additional responsibility of Apostolic Pro-Nuncio to Gabon on 15 January 1977.[citation needed]
He went on to serve as Apostolic Nuncio to Zaire beginning 3 June 1981[3] and Apostolic Nuncio to Germany from 3 August 1984.[4]
Pope John Paul II appointed him secretary of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples on 21 June 1991.[5] He was also president of the Pontifical Missionary Works from 1991-1995. 
Pope John Paul planned to make him a cardinal in the consistory of 21 February 1998, but Uhač died on the morning of 18 January 1998, a few hours before the pope announced the consistory.[6] He was 73.
Uhač was buried in the parish church of Saint George, Brseč, Archdiocese of Rijeka-Senj, Croatia.
The cruise missiles strike on Iraq in June 1993 were ordered by U.S. President Bill Clinton as both a retaliation and a warning triggered by the attempted assassination by alleged Iraqi intelligence agents of former U.S. President George H. W. Bush while on a visit to Kuwait from 14–16 April 1993.[1]
On June 27, 1993, 23 Tomahawk cruise missiles were launched by two U.S. Navy warships into downtown Baghdad. These hit a building which was believed to be the headquarters of the Iraqi Intelligence Service in the Mansour district of Baghdad. Iraq claimed that nine civilians were killed in the attack and three civilian houses destroyed.
On the night of 13 April 1993, a day before George H. W. Bush was scheduled to visit Kuwait City to commemorate the international coalition victory against Iraq in the Persian Gulf War, Kuwaiti authorities arrested 14 persons suspected in the plot to kill Bush using explosives hidden in a Toyota Landcruiser.[2]
The Kuwaitis recovered the Landcruiser, which contained between 80 and 90 kilograms of plastic explosives, composed mostly of RDX, connected to a detonator (called the "Bush device" in an FBI laboratory report). They also recovered ten cube-shaped plastic explosive devices with detonators (called "cube bombs" in an FBI laboratory report) from the Landcruiser.[2]
Investigators from the FBI, Secret Service, and other agencies traveled to Kuwait immediately after the arrests were made public. The Clinton administration said it would consider action against Iraq if it had positive proof of Iraqi complicity in an assassination attempt.[3]
Clinton was convinced the attack was masterminded by the Iraqi Intelligence Service by three pieces of evidence. First, the suspects in the plot made detailed confessions to FBI agents in Kuwait, including two alleged leaders of the plot, Ra'ad Asadi and Wali Abdelhadi Ghazali, both of whom were Iraqi nationals. Asadi stated that he was responsible for directing the car bomb, while Ghazali said that he would have been responsible for detonating the bomb to kill Bush. Second, FBI bomb experts linked the captured 175-pound car bomb found in Kuwait City to previous explosives made in Iraq.[1][2] Third, intelligence assessments noted that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein had publicly threatened Bush, including promising to hunt down and punish Bush on Iraqi official media, even after Bush left office.[1] The Clinton administration had also promised that it would punish Iraq if the individuals accused in the assassination plot were found guilty of acting on orders from Iraq. At least two of the defendants had pleaded guilty in early June 1993, prior to the missile strike. Both of them stated in court that they had been recruited by men they believed to be Iraqi intelligence agents, and had driven the explosive-laden Toyota from Iraq to Kuwait.[4]
An analysis by the CIA's Counterterrorism Mission Center from May 13, 1993 claimed that Kuwaiti authorities possibly "cooked the books" on the assassination plot. CIA analysts stated that the Kuwaiti government may have used the discovery of an unrelated Iraqi weapons smuggling plot to project a plot against Bush. They noted that some of the evidence, including explosive devices matching those used in Iraqi operations, definitely pointed to Iraqi involvement. However, they were unable to corroborate the Kuwaiti assertion that the plot was aimed at Bush. US officials described the report as an "interim report" and suggested subsequent FBI operations left open the possibility that there had indeed been an Iraqi plot on Bush's life.[3] In October 1993, New Yorker investigative journalist Seymour Hersh assailed the U.S. government’s case as "seriously flawed." He noted that seven experts in electronic engineering and explosives who saw photographs of the explosive device in Kuwait and a known Iraqi device told him that "both were generic equipment without unique characteristics." Hersh also said that some of the suspected bombers disavowed their confessions and claimed that they had been beaten.[5][6]
In 1993, trials began for the men accused in the assassination plot.[4] In 1994, ten Iraqis and three Kuwaitis were sentenced for their roles in the plot, including five Iraqis and one Kuwaiti who were sentenced to death. One defendant was acquitted during the trial. Ghazali was one of the defendants to plead guilty and was one of the individuals sentenced to death. He stated after his sentencing that he attempted to assassinate Bush as revenge for the Persian Gulf War and his family, claiming that 16 family members were killed by Bush's actions.[7][8] Another defendant who plead guilty stated that he was motivated to join the operation for payment.[4] In March 1995, Kuwait's top appeals court upheld two of the death sentences, while commuting the death sentences for three Iraqis to life imprisonment and setting aside the death penalty conviction of one Kuwaiti for a lower charge resulting in five years imprisonment.[9]
Between 1:00 am and 2:00 am local time on 26 June/June 27, 1993, 23 Tomahawk cruise missiles were launched by two U.S. Navy warships into downtown Baghdad. These hit a building which was believed to be the headquarters of the Iraqi Intelligence Service in the Mansour district of Baghdad. Iraq claimed that nine civilians were killed in the attack and three civilian houses destroyed. The missiles were fired from the destroyer USS Peterson in the Red Sea and the cruiser USS Chancellorsville in the Persian Gulf.[10]
U.S. Secretary of Defense Les Aspin, stated in a June 27, 1993, interview with The Washington Post:[1]
"What we're doing is sending a message against the people who were responsible for planning this operation. . . . {If} anybody asks the same people to do it again, they will remember this message."
Ted Bruner is an American musician, songwriter, and record producer, originally from St. Louis, Missouri, United States.
Bruner began his professional music career when his band Colony was signed to MCA Records.[1][2] In 2002, he relocated to Los Angeles and began writing and producing for Rondor Music/Universal.[2]  He left Universal in 2009 and signed with Warner Chappell Music, and then signed with Kobalt Music Group[3] in 2012.  In 2014, he made his way to the Rocky Mountains of Colorado where we works from his home studio.[1]  He has written with and/or produced songs for Katy Perry,[1] Miley Cyrus,[4][1] Kesha,[5] Selena Gomez,[1] Plain White T's,[1] Three Days Grace,[1][6] My Darkest Days,[1] Cavo,[7] Neil Sanderson,[8] Matt Walst,[1] Barry Stock,[8] Brad Walst,[8] Joey Moi,[9] Gavin Brown,[9] Marie Digby,[10] Natalie Walker,[11] Rusko,[6] Bonnie Mckee[6] among others, as well as songs in film and television, and has co-written three #1 US rock singles,[12][13][6] including the #1 most played rock radio song of 2022.[14]
In a 2021 interview in Boulder Weekly, Matt Walst, the lead singer of Three Days Grace is quoted as saying "Ted's like. . .  well, he's kind of like a therapist," Walst says over a phone interview from his home outside of Toronto. "He'll ask you personal questions because he wants to write about what's real, what's going on in your life. Whenever you can take what you've gone through and make it apply to other people's experience, that's the key to really engaging people in the music—if they can see themselves in it. I feel like Ted is super good at getting into that."[1]
When Bruner got paired with Katy Perry, a wide-eyed pop songwriter who had recently been dropped from a label, he said "She was just so, so sad. She told me that she had one foot out the door, that L.A. was driving her crazy." He encouraged her to channel her pain into her music. One evening in the studio at Universal, Bruner says Perry was ready to explore her pain, and the two co-wrote the song "Lost", which appeared on Perry's platinum selling major label debut, One of the Boys.[1]
In the book It All Begins with the Music, Bruner is quoted as saying "Music is a rebellious path; it's all about freedom, and if you lock down and listen to people who are only worried about making a buck, that will shave off all the reasons you got into it in the first place- to have an adventurous and exciting life. If you keep that mindset, then the music will keep coming to you."[2]
"That's my saying: Spinning on a rock in space, orbiting a ball of fire," Bruner says. "It makes some people feel so small and I'm like, exactly. It just takes all the pressure off of you. Whatever is going on in your life doesn't hold a candle to the infinite magnitude of the universe."[1]
WGL (1250 AM) is a radio station licensed to serve Fort Wayne, Indiana, and owned by Brian R. Walsh.[2] The station broadcasts an All-news format, branded as "WGL Newsradio 1250 and 105.5". WGL is one of the oldest stations in the Fort Wayne metropolitan area.
Studios are located on Cass Street and the transmitter site is located in Fort Wayne's East Central neighborhood in a facility also used by WIOE.[3] WGL simulcasts over Fort Wayne translator W288EI (105.5 FM), which was added on March 5, 2021.
High school football and basketball, primarily Bishop Luers and Bishop Dwenger, began on August 15, 2021. University of Saint Francis football and basketball will be added in the fall of 2022.
WGL was first licensed, with the sequentially issued call letters WHBJ, to the Lauer Auto Company at 2109 South Calhoun Street on March 3, 1925.[4] It was Fort Wayne's third broadcasting station, preceded by the United Radio Corporation's WFAS in 1922,[5] and the Strand Theater's WDBV in 1924,[6] although both of these stations had left the airwaves by the time WHBJ debuted.
In 1926 Chester W. Keen took over WHBJ and changed the call letters to WCWK to reflect his initials.[7] Following the establishment of the Federal Radio Commission (FRC), stations were initially issued a series of temporary authorizations starting on May 3, 1927.[8] In addition, stations were informed that if they wanted to continue operating, they needed to file a formal license application by January 15, 1928, as the first step in determining whether they met the new "public interest, convenience, or necessity" standard.[9] On May 25, 1928, the FRC issued General Order 32, which notified 164 stations, including WCWK, that "From an examination of your application for future license it does not find that public interest, convenience, or necessity would be served by granting it."[10] However, the station successfully convinced the commission that it should remain licensed.
On November 11, 1928, the FRC implemented a major reallocation of station transmitting frequencies, as part of a reorganization resulting from its implementation of General Order 40.[11] In early 1929, WCWK was assigned to 1370 kHz. In 1925 WOWO had been established by the Main Auto Supply Co., with studios above the company's downtown factory,[12] and in 1928 Keen sold WCWK to WOWO owner Fred Zieg. WCWK's call letters were changed to WGL[13] ("World's Greatest Loudspeaker"), taking a call sign previously used by the current WADO in New York City.
 WOWO and WGL were owned by the Zieg family until their sale to Westinghouse in 1936. On March 29, 1941, WGL moved to 1450 kHz, as part of the implementation of the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement. In August 1941, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) began implementation of a "duopoly" rule, which restricted licensees from operating more than one radio station in a given market.[15] Westinghouse decided to retain WOWO and sold WGL to the Farnsworth Television and Radio Corporation in 1945.
WGL received permission to move to 1250 kHz in 1946. On September 24, 1947, the station's power was increased from 250 to 1,000 watts.[16] Subsequently it was purchased by the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel. The call letters of WGL were reinterpreted as "Wayne's Great Lady", referring to Helene Foelliger, who had markedly improved circulation of the News-Sentinel since becoming publisher less than a decade earlier, when she became the youngest, as well as one of the first female, publishers of a major newspaper. William Kunkle, publisher of the morning Journal-Gazette, followed by establishing WKJG (William Kunkle Journal-Gazette) in 1947, but while WKJG established a television station in 1953, WGL had no television license.
WGL is known for being the first station in Fort Wayne to carry a talk format and one of the initial stations to carry The Rush Limbaugh Show, which moved to WOWO in 1996. In February 1998, WGL changed its format to sports; most of its programming came from "One-On-One Sports" (now "Sporting News Radio.") As a result, they dropped G. Gordon Liddy, Tom Leykis, Art Bell, and local host Rusty Humphries. Between September 1998 and August 2000, WGL aired ESPN Radio, claiming it from rival WOWO. By August 2000, ESPN's affiliation moved to rival WONO, WOWO's sister station. At this point, the format returned to talk, featuring the programs of such hosts as Liddy, Bill O'Reilly, and Jim Rome. Several years later, the format switched to sports talk under the Fox Sports 1250 banner, with the notable exception of Dave Macy's morning program, which covered news, politics, and culture as well as sports.
WGL was sold (along with the other Kovas Communications stations) to Travis Broadcasting Corp. in December 2001, for $7.5 million. WGL was purchased, along with its sister stations by Summit City Radio Group in July 2004. Currently, it broadcasts adult standards, having picked up the format in 2003. WGL aired the syndicated Adult Standards (America's Best Music) format from Dial Global until April 2007, when the station went to a standards/soft AC hybrid with a combination of local DJs and local automation. The station soon returned to airing the Dial Global format with a local morning show.
Weekday programming on The River consisted of Dial Global's America's Best Music format from midnight to noon and then from 6 p.m. to midnight, Dave Ramsey from noon to 3 p.m., and local talk host Pat White from 3 to 6 p.m.
WGL's programming was simulcast full-time on WGL-FM (102.9) until 12:00PM on April 1, 2010, when the FM station broke away to air a Soft AC format as "V102.9". The simulcast returned on June 3, 2013, when both WGL and WGL-FM switched to an oldies format.[17] Former WLYV and WQHK-FM disc jockey Rick Hughes served as the station's morning host; Pat White's show was retained on the simulcast (and moved to 2 to 5 p.m.), while Dave Ramsey was dropped from the WGL lineup.[18]
In March 2014, Adams Radio Group, LLC entered an agreement to purchase Summit City's cluster (which includes WGL). Days later, Adams announced they would purchase Oasis Radio Group's stations.[19] To meet ownership limits, Adams retained WNHT, WGL and WXKE, as well as Oasis Radio Group's WJFX and WBTU, and sold off WHPP to Fort Wayne Catholic Radio and WGL-FM to Calvary Radio Network; WLYV and two translators (on 96.9 FM and 103.3 FM) were acquired by Adams from Calvary in the process.[20] The transaction, at a price of $6.4 million, was consummated on June 2, 2014; WGL switched to Fox Sports Radio programming the following day.[21]
On March 22, 2020, due to a significant decline in advertising revenue attributed to the COVID-19 pandemic, Adams Radio Group suspended operations for WGL. A statement on WGL's website read in part that Adams was intending to devote all efforts to their "larger signal stations";[22] paperwork filed with the FCC indicated that Adams would review options for a resumption of operations for WGL.[23] Three weeks later, Adams announced a sale of WGL and the construction permit for low-power FM translator W233CS (94.5 FM) to Brian R. Walsh—owner of WIOE (1450 AM) and Warsaw-market WIOE-FM (101.1)—for $50,000.[24]
The Ambergris Caye Limestone is a geologic formation in Belize. It preserves fossils dating back to the Late Pleistocene period.[1]

This article about a specific stratigraphic formation in Central America is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article related to the Neogene period is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Belize-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ascaptesyle submarginata is a moth of the subfamily Arctiinae. It was described by William Schaus in 1905. It is found in Trinidad.[1] No subspecies are listed in the Catalogue of Life.[2]

This Lithosiini-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Henri (Hans) van de Waal (3 March 1910 – 7 May 1972) was a Dutch writer and art historian known for developing Iconclass.
Van de Waal was born in Rotterdam. In 1934 he finished his education as an art historian in Leiden with a monography on Jan van Goyen.[1] He accepted a position at the National Print Cabinet in The Hague, where he began work on a German concept of image-based historical research, which due to the special circumstances of the interbellum period was drastically reduced. He eventually finished his PhD thesis 12 July 1940, cum laude, on the patriotic subject of Zeventiende eeuwsche uitbeeldingen van den Bataafschen Opstand (17th-century images of the Batavian Revolt). Four months later he was dismissed as part of the actions by the German occupational forces against Jews.[1]
Soon after being released from captivity in Westerbork in 1945, he took up work as an assistant professor in Leiden, but was appointed a full professorship in art history the same December. In 1946 he presented his ideas about mapping the iconography of art history with "beeld-leer", an image-based concept of recording form, function and content with one code.[1] He remained professor and director of the print cabinet until his death resulting from kidney damage contracted during a case of scarlet fever he had while in Westerbork.[2]
Van de Waal was elected a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1957.[3]
His "beeld-leer" resulted in the D.I.A.L. (Decimal Index of the Art of the Low Countries) based on the Dewey Decimal System, and later called Iconclass.
For an image titled View of the Heiligewegspoort (Heiligeweg gate) attributed to Lievens, van de Waal had pointed out that its creator could be Jan Andrea Lievens, or the son of the attributed. Werner Sumowski took that suggestion into account and in editing Lievens's catalogue, the picture in question was not included.[4][5] Among the same collection presently at Leiden University, van de Waal also noted "Man arriving in a village, a sheep on his shoulders, Old Testament scene?" could be a copy after Van Bronckhorst, which is now attributed to Jan Gerritsz van Bronckhorst.[6]
Van de Waal nominated Albertus Welcker for an honorary doctorate in arts and philosophy in 1955, as the year fell on the "Rembrandt Year", recognising Welcker's endeavour and contribution on building a collection of Dutch paintings.[7] Jaap Hillenius exchanged letters with Van de Waal, and one such is among the collection of the Library of Linden University with a drawing of a standing man on the wrong side.[8]
The 3rd constituency of the Hauts-de-Seine is a French legislative constituency in the Hauts-de-Seine département.  It is represented in the XVIth legislature by Philippe Juvin of LR.
Hauts-de-Seine's 3rd constituency lies in the north of the department around Courbevoie situated 8.2 km to the west of central Paris. The seat is urban in character and is densely packed on the western side of the Seine on the opposite bank to Neuilly-sur-Seine. The constituency also includes part of La Défense the business district which serves the capital.
The seat has elected conservative deputies without interruption since 1988, however between 1973 and 1986 and seat elected a deputy from the French Communist Party. In recent years the seat has become very safe for the Gaullist right with the UMP candidate winning in the first round in 2002 and 2007.
[1]
* RPR dissident
Anthony Field at Wildcat Stadium is a stadium in Abilene, Texas. It is used as the home field of the Abilene Christian Wildcats football team. The stadium currently seats 12,000 people. The stadium's field is named after Abilene Christian University alumni, Mark and April Anthony, whose generous lead gift helped to fund the stadium.
Abilene Christian University, Hoar Construction and HKS Sports & Entertainment Group officially broke ground on February 19, 2016, to begin construction of the new stadium.[5][6] Hoar Construction and HKS Sports & Entertainment Group were recognized by the Associated Builders and Contractors, Inc., 28th Annual Excellence in Construction Awards, for their work on the project.[7] The stadium hosted its first home game on September 16, 2017, against the Houston Baptist Huskies.[8]
Wildcat Stadium features berm, club level and suite seating, a press box, event space for seating up to 500 people for non-gameday events, as well as a dedicated student section and an HD Video board in the north endzone.[9][10]

This article about a sports venue in Texas is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Atakpamé (Latin: Atakpamen(sis)) is a diocese located in the city of Atakpamé in the ecclesiastical province of Lomé in Togo.
7°31′16″N 1°08′20″E﻿ / ﻿7.5211°N 1.1390°E﻿ / 7.5211; 1.1390


This Togo-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Vessra Abbey (German: Kloster Veßra) was a Premonstratensian monastery in the village also named Kloster Veßra in the district of Hildburghausen, Thuringia, Germany.
The monastery was founded in the 1130s by Gotebold II, Count of Henneberg, and his wife Liutgard on a site near the confluence of the Schleuse and the Werra. The church was dedicated in 1138; the foundation received papal confirmation three years later.
For the whole of its existence of more than four hundred years the abbey was the house monastery of the Hennebergs. It also had a close association with the von Bibra family, particularly in the 15th century.  During the Reformation in 1543, the monastery was turned into an estate.  
The former monastery served another four hundred years as an agricultural estate, mostly in private hands, but after World War II as a possession of the East German state, and from 1953 as the site of a collective farm (Landwirtschaftliche Produktionsgenossenschaft, or LPG).
In 1975 the site was taken over by the Museum of the History of Agriculture of the DDR (Agrarhistorisches Museum der DDR). Since 1990 the site has been the home of the Hennebergische Museum, an open-air museum specialising in the display of re-located local buildings.
The abbey church, dedicated to Saint Mary, was converted to the parish church, with much of the space used for storage.  Most of the church structure was heavily damaged in a 1939 fire.  One chapel continues to be used.  The ruins are nevertheless substantial and after stabilisation it remains the most significant Romanesque building in the region. Of the monastic buildings themselves there remain the gate chapel and the accommodation block, including the ruins of the cloister.
50°30′N 10°39′E﻿ / ﻿50.5°N 10.65°E﻿ / 50.5; 10.65
Tariq Tawfiq Selim (15 July 1937 – 16 July 2016)[1] was an Egyptian footballer. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1960 Summer Olympics.[2]
This biographical article related to Egyptian football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Complex of Silesian International Schools, founded in 2007 in Katowice, is an International Centre of University of Cambridge International Examinations (CIE). Prywatne Liceum Ogolnoksztalcace im. Melchiora Wankowicza, which is a part of the Complex, offers the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme.
The Complex offers a curriculum for students aged 3–19 in Cambridge Primary, Checkpoint, IGCSE and IB Diploma Programmes. The language of instruction on all levels is English, but the school strongly emphasises other languages, such as Polish, Spanish and German.
50°15′32″N 18°58′13″E﻿ / ﻿50.258791°N 18.970358°E﻿ / 50.258791; 18.970358
A calendar (sometimes historically spelled kalendar) is, in the context of archival science, textual scholarship, and archival publication, a descriptive list of documents. The verb to calendar means to compile or edit such a list. The word is used differently in Britain and North America with regard to the amount of detail expected: in Britain, it implies a detailed summary which may be used as a substitute for the full text; whereas in North America it implies a more basic inventory.
The term "calendar" derives from a (now somewhat archaic) word meaning a list or register of any kind.[1] Although the documents in a calendar are generally arranged in chronological order, the term has no direct relationship to a table of dates.
In the British tradition, the word normally implies a full descriptive summary (often published) in which each document is the subject of a "carefully controlled, rigorously consistent précis".[2] All significant elements in the text are recorded, so that the great majority of researchers will be spared the need to consult the originals: the completed calendar effectively becomes a substitute for the archival documents, and is often treated as a primary source in its own right. Trivial or incidental elements ("common form and unnecessary verbiage") are omitted;[2] but all names, dates and significant statements are noted, and passages which appear to the editor to be of particular interest or importance may be quoted in full.[3] Documents in archaic or foreign languages (particularly Latin) are normally calendared in the modern vernacular, but significant or ambiguous terms or passages may be given in the original language. A calendar is therefore less detailed or comprehensive than a series of full transcripts or translations; but considerably more detailed than an archival list or other finding aid.
Calendars are at their most useful when published, giving remote users access to the contents of archival records. Well-known series of published calendars of British medieval and early modern sources include the Calendar of Charter Rolls (1903–1927); the Calendar of Close Rolls (1900–1963); the Calendar of Patent Rolls (1891–); the Calendars of State Papers (Domestic and Foreign) (1856–); the Calendars of Treasury Books and Papers (1868–1962) (all from material now in The National Archives); the Calendars of Entries in the Papal Registers relating to Great Britain and Ireland (published by the Public Record Office 1896–1960, and by the Irish Manuscripts Commission 1978–); the Letters and Papers of the Reign of Henry VIII (1864–1932); and the "Reports and Calendars" series on privately held archives published between 1869 and 2004 by the Royal Commission on Historical Manuscripts.
One advantage of calendars in the era of print publishing was that a précis of a text took up less space than a full transcript or facsimile.[4] This reasoning carries less weight in the age of electronic publishing; but calendars still have a role in providing readers with an accurate, comprehensive and accessible summary of a document which may be more readily comprehensible than a more faithful and complete version of the original. In Irish historiography, the destruction of the Public Record Office of Ireland during the Irish Civil War means that calendars made before 1922 are often the most complete surviving records.
Roy Hunnisett writes:
At a first glance a calendar might seem easier to produce than a fully edited transcript, but that is not so. Indeed, an adequate calendar represents an editorial stage beyond a transcript.[5]Similarly, Paul Harvey emphasises that the editorial task of calendaring "is not the soft option that editors have sometimes assumed"; and that the process of summarising accurately without error or distortion can be "significantly harder than straightforward editing".[2]
In the North American tradition, a "calendar" generally implies a briefer and more summary list or inventory than in Britain, arranged chronologically. Its intention is to provide a succinct indication of the documents' date, origin and subject-matter, but little more; and it is designed as a finding aid to locate the originals, not as a substitute for them.[6][7]
Al-Ma'mun al-Bata'ihi (Arabic: المأمون البطائحي) was an Egyptian vizier of the Fatimid Caliphate for four years during the caliphate of al-Amir bi-Ahkam Allah.[1] During his term, he reopened the house of knowledge, made efforts to restore shi'ite orthodoxy, and tried to reconcile the differences between the Fatimids and the Nizaris. His term ended with his execution, which was ordered by the caliph.
His name was Qaʾid Abū Muḥammad ʿAlī bin Fatik but is better known by the name 'al-Ma'mun'.  Little is known of his life before he succeeded Al-Afdal Shahanshah, murdered by Assassins, as the Fatimid vizier in 1121 ACE.
On coming to power, he reopened the Dar al-Hikmah (House of Wisdom) in Cairo, closed in 1119 by his predecessor. He also raised the salaries of state officials. It was during his term that the Al-Aqmar mosque was built. Construction was completed by 1125 ACE. He also built three pavilions(المناظر) in the eastern Grand Palace in Cairo.
He made a proclamation that every inhabitant of Cairo or Fustat who owned a house in ruins should repair it to live in, sell or rent. In case of non-compliance with the order, the house would be confiscated.
He restored the celebrations of Mawlid (Muhammad's birthday), Ali, Fatima and of the current Imam, al-Amir. He ordered the financing of mawlids and wuqūdāt (four nights of lights and celebrations) as customary, consisting of money and a gift of sweets such as honey or nuts, and fragrances such as rose water, musk or camphor. This recovery marked a return to the Shi'ite orthodoxy, weakened during the previous reigns.[citation needed]
Acting against the possible influence of the Nizari Isma'ilis in Egypt, in 1122 he organised a large public meeting to establish the legitimacy of the descendants of al-Musta'li and reject the successors of Nizar ibn al-Mustansir. Many senior Fatimid officials attended, including Abu Muhammad bin Adam, the head of the Dar al-Hikmah. On this occasion, the sister of Nizar, hidden behind a curtain, swore that when al-Mustansir was on his deathbed, he designated al-Mustaʿli as his successor. At the end of the meeting, al-Ma'mun ordered Abu-l-Qasim Ali Ibn al-Sayrafi (d. 1147), the secretary of the Fatimid Chancery, to write a letter (sijill), known under the title of 'al-Hidayat al-Amiriyya li-Mawlana al-Amir fi ithbat Imamat Mawlana al-Mustaʿli waʿr-radd alaʿn Nizariyya' or 'ar Risalatuʿl-Amiriyya' in favor of al-Mustaʿli, which was to be read from the minbar of all the mosques in Egypt. He also circulated copies of this letter in Syria, causing an outcry among the Nizaris of Damascus.
The uncertain financial situation of the empire and its reflections on the complex political and religious context of the country and, most of all, the provoked hostility of the Imam finally led to his arrest and execution in 1125.
African blackwood dermatitis is a condition characterized by an allergic contact dermatitis associated with a musical instrument made of a particular type of wood.[1]

This cutaneous condition article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The List of Ottoman postal rates in Palestine surveys the postal rates in effect between 1840 and 1918 during the Ottoman rule in Palestine. Rates not applicable in Palestine are not included.
The Imperial edict of 12 Ramasan 1256 (14 October 1840)[1] and later ordinances made the distinction between three types of mail items: ordinary letters, registered letters (markings te'ahudd olunmoshdur), and official letters (markings tahirat-i mühümme).[2] Prior to the Imperial Edict, the Ottoman postal service was intermittent for the inland cities in Palestine.[3] Fees were calculated by the type of mail, the weight, and the distance (measured in hours): in 1840, an ordinary letter, weighing less than 10g, had a cost per hour of 1 para.[4][5] Special fees applied to samples, insured mail, special delivery, and printed matters, etc.[4] The postal rates changed frequently, and new services were added over the years. Upon joining the Universal Postal Union on 1 July 1875, Ottoman overseas rates conformed to UPU rules.
half a para increase per additional dirhem and hour
Currency:
Mohamed Messaoud (born 19 November 1981) is an Algerian professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder or forward.[1]  at the club  RC Boumerdes
Messaoud finished twice as the top scorer of the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1 in 2008–09 and 2011–12. In 2011, he was a member of the Algeria A' national football team that finished fourth at the 2011 African Nations Championship in Sudan.
Messaoud was born in Tiaret, Algeria. On 2 November 2012 he reached the 100 goal milestone in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1 with a goal against CA Batna in the ninth round of the 2012–13 Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1 season.[2]
On 21 May 2009 Messaoud was called up as a reserve player to the Algerian national team for its qualifiers against Egypt and Zambia.[3]
ASO Chlef
David Johan Kvandal (né Johansen; 8 September 1919 – 16 February 1999) was a Norwegian composer.
He was born in Kristiania to David Monrad Johansen and Amunda Holmsen, with the family later moving to Bærum where Kvandal died.
He took his studies in conducting and organ at Oslo Conservatory, and studied composition from Marx at the Hochschule für Musik, Vienna, and Boulanger in Paris. He served as a music critic for the Oslo newspapers Morgenposten and Aftenposten, and as organist of the Vålenengen Church in Oslo. Many of his works utilize folk elements.[1] Among his compositions are Norsk ouverture [nl] from 1951, Skipper Worse-suite for a television drama series from 1968, Norske stevtoner from 1974, and Balladen om Heming unge from 1984. His opera Mysterier, with libretto based on Hamsun's novel, was staged at Den Norske Opera in 1994.[2][3][4]
He was married twice, first to Maria Teresia Unterrainer (from 1951), and from 1976 to Lilleba Lund.[2]
Smithsonian Channel's Sound Revolution is a documentary television series hosted by award-winning actor Morgan Freeman. Documentary footage, expert interviews and musical performances trace the origins of be-bop, jazz, rock 'n' roll and soul music, all emanating from “ground zero” – Clarksdale, Mississippi – and the Mississippi Delta.   Each hour-long program is filled with recent performances, largely from the Montreux Jazz Festival, featuring performances by: B.B. King, Ike Tuner, Buddy Guy, Etta James, Eric Clapton, Carlos Santana, Robert Cray, Miles Davis, The Neville Brothers and many others.  The show premiered in November 2008 on Smithsonian Networks. It was scripted by British writer Joe Cushley, directed by Chris Walker and produced by Alan Ravenscroft.
Blake Whittfield Ferguson (born April 21, 1997) is an American football long snapper for the Miami Dolphins of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at LSU, winning a national championship in 2020.
Ferguson played college football for LSU from 2015 to 2019. He played in 52 games at long snapper, and was also a two-year captain of the team.[1]
Ferguson was selected by the Miami Dolphins in the sixth round (185th overall) of the 2020 NFL Draft.[1] He signed a four-year contract on May 10.[4] He was named the Dolphins starting long snapper as a rookie.
On September 6, 2023, Ferguson signed a three-year contract extension with the Dolphins.[5]
He is the younger brother of Buffalo Bills long snapper Reid Ferguson. He has type 1 diabetes.[6]

This biographical article relating to an American football player, coach, or other figure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Journal of Physiotherapy is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering physiotherapy. It is published by Elsevier on behalf of the Australian Physiotherapy Association (APA). The journal was established in 1954 as (The) Australian Journal of Physiotherapy and obtained its current title in 2010. As of 2020[update] the editor-in-chief is Mark Elkins of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital. Its main focuses are systematic reviews and reports of clinical trials, economic analyses, experimental studies, qualitative studies, epidemiological studies, and observational studies.
The first issue of The Australian Journal of Physiotherapy was published in 1955,[1] and it continued under this name until 2009. All back issues are available online.[2] With Volume 56 beginning in 2010, the name was changed to Journal of Physiotherapy.[3]
In January 2008, the journal was the first physiotherapy journal to conform to the ICMJE requirement that randomised trials are registered with a recognised trial registry. In January 2014 it became the first physiotherapy/physical therapy journal to make editorials and peer-reviewed original research freely available. In 2016 the APA started sponsoring Open Access publication of all of the journal's content, including all past, present and future articles. It does not charge author fees for publication.[4]

This article about a medical journal is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.See tips for writing articles about academic journals. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
Scopula planipennis is a moth of the  family Geometridae. It is found in Sierra Leone.[2]

This Scopula-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The royal necropolis of Ayaa (Arabic: قياعة, romanized: Qiyā'ah or Qiyâa;[a][1] also romanized as "Ayaʿa") was a group of two hypogea housing a total of 21 sarcophagi of kings and nobles of the city of Sidon (modern Saida), a coastal city in Lebanon, and a prominent Phoenician city-state. The sarcophagi were highly diverse in style, ranging across Egyptian, Greek, Lycian and Phoenician styles. The Phoenicians exhibited diverse mortuary practices that included inhumation and cremation. While written records about their beliefs in the afterlife are scarce, archaeological evidence suggests they believed in an afterlife known as the "House of Eternity." Burial sites in Iron Age Phoenicia, like the Ayaa necropolis, were typically located outside settlements, and featured various tomb types and burial practices.
The royal necropolis of Ayaa was located at the base of Hlaliyeh hill, at an elevation of 35 meters and approximately 500 meters from the sea, at the outskirts of the city of Sidon. The site had been previously surveyed by French orientalist and biblical scholar Ernest Renan who noted the presence of remnants of ancient ashlar masonry. The plot was owned by Mehmed Cherif Efendi, a Sidon local who was quarrying the land for construction material. The discovery of the necropolis in Ayaa was made in early 1877 by one of Cherif Efendi's workmen. The discovery is credited however to American Presbyterian minister William King Eddy who first learned of the necropolis from Cherif Effendi's workman. Eddy subsequently reported the discovery to the media and played a significant role in bringing attention to the site. The royal necropolis of Ayaa is the most famous of the royal necropoli of Achaemenid period Sidon; these consist of clusters of rock cut subterranean burial chambers accessible through vertical shafts.[2]
The discovery of the necropolis was a watershed moment for the career of Osman Hamdi Bey, the founding father of Ottoman archaeology and museology; it was his "most significant archaeological accomplishment", and firmly elevated his stature in the Western archaeological community. It was the reason for the construction of the main building of the Istanbul Archaeology Museums, which became known as the "Sarcophagus Museum". Even today the Ayaa sarcophagi are among the highlights of the museum, which remains by far the largest such museum in Turkey.[3][4]
The timing of the site's discovery was politically significant, as the Ottoman Empire had just begun to assert itself in the field of archaeology. The discovery of the Sarcophagus of Eshmunazar II three decades before, and Renan's subsequent Mission de Phénicie, had excited the European scholarly community; under the new regime photographs of this discovery were made available to European scholars but the finds were to be kept in Istanbul – this was considered a "failure in European acquisition".[5]
The Phoenicians emerged as a distinct culture on the Levantine coast in the Late Bronze Age (c. 1550 – c. 1200 BC) as one of the successor cultures to the Canaanites.[6][7] They were organized into independent city-states that shared a common language, culture, and religious practices. They had, however, diverse mortuary practices, including inhumation and cremation.[8]
Scholars studying funerary practices in Iron Age Phoenicia (c. 1200 – c. 500 BC) note the absence of ancient texts describing beliefs about life after death and funeral rituals.[9] However, various finds provide information that Phoenicians, like other peoples of the ancient Near East, believed in life after death and the immortality of the soul. The afterlife was referred to as the "House of Eternity," and the dead were thought to continue living in the underworld.[10][9] Archaeological finds complement the limited written records; in Iron Age Phoenicia, burial sites were usually located outside settlements. Various types of tombs were found, such as earth pits, cist tombs, rock-cut tombs, some with shafts, and ashlar masonry-built tombs. In inhumation practices, the deceased was buried intact, laid directly on the floor, placed on a wooden plank or bench, or inside a coffin. The more affluent deceased was sometimes embalmed and wrapped in a shroud or clothed, and offerings like food and drink placed in pottery vessels, amulets, masks made of various materials, terracotta figurines were placed in the sepulture.[11] Funerals were accompanied by lamentations, as attested on the Mourning women sarcophagus found in the Ayaa royal necropolis, and the Ahiram sarcophagus discovered in the royal necropolis of Byblos. Grief was expressed by crying, beating one’s chest, and tearing one’s clothes.[12]
Archaeological evidence of elite Achaemenid period burials abounds in the hinterland of Sidon. These include inhumations in underground vaults, rock-cut niches, and shaft and chamber tombs in Sarepta,[13] Ain al-Hilweh,[14] Ayaa,[15][16] Mgharet Abloun,[17] and the Temple of Eshmun.[18] Elite Phoenician burials were characterized by the use of sarcophagi, a consistent emphasis on the integrity of the tomb,[19][20] and evidence of mummification,[b] suggesting Egyptian influence on elite funerary customs.[25] Surviving mortuary inscriptions invoke deities to assist with the procurement of blessings, and to conjure curses and calamities on whoever desecrated the tomb.[26]
Greek culture had a significant but lesser influence on Phoenician religion compared to Egyptian culture. Peaceful trade connections between the Phoenicians and Greeks began in the second millennium BC and continued to grow. Greek influence on Phoenician culture, including religion and art, became more pronounced from the 5th century BC, even while Phoenicia was under Persian rule. The Sidonian elite admired Greek art and architecture, as evident in the incorporation of Greek mythological scenes in their monuments. They also accepted the identification of their gods with Greek counterparts, such as Eshmun with Asclepius and/or Apollo and Melqart with Heracles. The Phoenician educated elite started learning Greek, delving into Greek mythology and philosophy.
Classical era Phoenician royal tombs in Sidon revealed the use of marble in the making of anthropoid sarcophagi imitating elite Egyptian basalt sarcophagi. These anthropoid sarcophagi gradually adopted increasingly realistic faces owing to Hellenistic influence.[12]
Consecutive discoveries in the 19th century of necropoli in the hinterland of Sidon gave rare insight into the city's past. The remains of the ancient city were built over by a dense matrix of narrow medieval Souks and densely populated residential quarters. The first record of the discovery of an ancient necropolis in Sidon was made in 1816 by English explorer and Egyptologist William John Bankes.[27][28] Bankes, who was the guest of British adventurer and archaeologist Hester Stanhope, visited the vast necropolis that was accidentally discovered in 1814, in Wadi Abu Ghiyas at the foot of the towns of Bramieh and Hlaliye, northeast of Sidon. He sketched the layout of one of the sepulchral caves, made faithful watercolor copies of its frescoes, and removed two fresco panels which he sent to England.[c][28]
On 20 February 1855, Antoine-Aimé Peretié, the chancellor of the French consulate in Beirut and amateur archaeologist was informed by treasure hunter Alphonse Durighello, of an archaeological find in a hollowed-out rocky mound that was known to locals as Magharet Abloun 'The Cavern of Apollo'.[29][30][2][31] Durighello had taken advantage of the absence of laws governing archaeological excavation and the disposition of the finds under the Ottoman rule over Lebanon and had been involved in the lucrative business of digging up and trafficking archaeological artifacts. Under the Ottomans, it sufficed to either own the land or to have the owner's permission to excavate. Any finds resulting from the digs became the property of the finder.[32] To perform digs in the site of the cavern, Durighello bought the exclusive right from the land owner, the then Mufti of Sidon Mustapha Effendi.[32][33] Durighello, who is referred to as Peretié's "agent" in de Luynes' account, unearthed the Sarcophagus of Eshmunazar II in an underground vaulted hypogeum and sold it to Peretié.[29][30][33][34]
At the beginning of 1887, Mehmed Cherif Effendi, the owner of a piece of land known as Ayaa, obtained a permit from the local authorities to exploit it as a quarry. One of Cherif Effendi's workmen uncovered a shaft and chamber tomb.[35][36] At nightfall, Cherif's workman made his way to American Presbyterian minister William King Eddy's home, a Sidon resident, to inform him of the find. The two men lowered themselves with a rope into the deep shaft, where Eddy realized upon inspecting the tomb that it was of considerable significance. He was the first to report this find to the media, and consequently, according to the American missionary narrative, is credited with the discovery.[36][37] Eddy had informed the English Orientalist William Wright who wrote an article in The Times imploring the British Museum to "take immediate measures to secure these treasures and prevent their falling into the hands of the vandal Turk".[37]
On 2 March 1887, Cherif reported to the Kaymakam of Sidon, Sadik Bey, of the shaft and chamber tomb. Sadik Bey examined the site and spotted  through a hole in the eastern wall of the shaft two sarcophagi. He escalated the matter to the Vali of Syria, Rashid Nashid Pasha, and the Governor of Beirut Nassouhi Bey, and entrusted the well to the care of Essad Effendi from the gendarmerie of Sidon.[35]
Sadik Bey uncovered the entrance to two additional burial chambers to either side of the first one, both containing sarcophagi. Nachid Pacha was updated with the findings and had the work suspended due to the delicate nature of the finds until the arrival of Bechara Effendi, the chief engineer of the Vilayet of Syria. On March 15, Bechara Effendi arrived in Sidon and opened a total of seven burial chambers, all of which contained at least one sarcophagus. He wrote a summary report to the Ministry of Public Instruction in Istanbul, based on which, Sultan Abdul Hamid, tasked the new curator of the Istanbul Archaeological Museum, Osman Hamdi Bey with excavating the necropolis, and transporting valuables back to Istanbul.[38]
Hamdi Bey left Istanbul on 18 April 1887, accompanied by Demosthenes Baltazzi Bey the director of the archaeological service of the Vilayet of Aidin.[39] They arrived in Sidon 12 days later.[40][37] Hamdi Bey paid Mehmed Sherif Effendi, the owner of the land, 1500 Ottoman Liras at the behest of the Sultan.[39]
On 1 May 1887, Hamdy Bey initiated the excavations: He oversaw the construction of a ladder to retrieve sarcophagus fragments through the surface shaft and supervised the excavation of a sloping trench that began from the adjacent grove known as Bostan el-Maghara, and extended into one of the necropolis' subterranean vaults.[41] The trench was completed on the evening of 13 May.[42] He had the vaults closed off to deter curious locals and looters, had guards stationed on site, and built tramway tracks that provided easy access to the necropolis to facilitate the retrieval of the sarcophagi.[43] Once unearthed, he had a frigate brought from Istanbul and had the sarcophagi loaded onto it through openings cut in its side.[44]
A group of people rode from Beirut to visit the site and see the collection, and one sarcophagus was found to contain a well-preserved human body floating in a fluid.[44] During the transportation however, and while Hamdi Bey was at lunch, the workmen overturned the sarcophagus and poured the fluid out, such that, according to Jessup, the "secret of the wonderful fluid was again hidden in the Sidon sand". Notably, after the "peculiar fluid" left the sarcophagus, the body started to decompose.[44][45] Hamdy Bey noted in 1892 that he had kept a portion of the sludge that remained in the bottom of the sarcophagus.[46]
Bechara Effendi is credited with discovering new burial chambers and with devising transport mechanisms and superintending the transit of the massive troves to a frigate bound for Constantinople's museum.[47][48]
All tombs had been violated in antiquity[49] except for N17.[50] Hamdi Bey believed that all the interred were related. [49]
On 17 August 1887, the Ottoman authorities announced that:
Because the solidity and weight of the antiquities recently found in Sidon makes their entrance into and their protection within the Imperial Museum impossible, [it has been decided that] there is a need for a new hall.[52]French-Levantine architect Alexandre Vallaury, who an architecture scholar at Hamdi Bey’s School of Fine Arts who had previously designed the Yıldız Palace, was appointed to design the new building.[39] Construction began in 1888, was expanded to two-floors in 1889, and opened on 13 June 1891. The design of the museum included a number of architectural elements borrowed from the Ayaa sarcophagi. The Ottoman magazine Servet-i Fünun repeatedly described the new museum as having reached the level of the great museums of Western Europe.[53]
The new museum building housed the Ayaa sarcophagi alongside other sarcophagi and stelae that the museum had previously collected. The Ayaa sarcophagi was the museum’s “first large-scale and relatively complete archaeological collection from a single site”. The 1893 museum catalogue describes how each of the sarcophagi surpassed its equivalents, and that they provide and ability to visualize the development of such art forms over time though “an uninterrupted series from primitive Ionian art to Byzantine art”; the Tabnit sarcophagus showcased Egyptian funerary art, subsequently adapted into Phoenicians anthropoidal sarcophagi, both later supplanted by Greco-Roman style, such as the Sarcophagus of the Mourning Women and the Alexander Sarcophagus.[54][55]
"On my return to Saida, I found that admirable necropolis from which were taken those magnificent sarcophagi which the Museum of Constantinople removed from Saïda three years ago, to have been annihilated! For the rock in which were these beautiful sepulchral vaults worthy of the archæologic marvels which they contained, the entire rock, had been brutally torn up and transformed into stupid masonry! And there, where reposed the ashes of King Tabnit, there is only an empty pit. That grandiose subterranean Museum, which earthquakes and the devastations of conquerors and centuries of barbarism had respected, has been effaced by the criminal stupidity of a miserable gardener of Saida.”
Edmond Durighello, 31 Jan 1890[56]The ancient city of Sidon (modern Saida) is a port city  located 45 km (28 mi) south of Beirut on the Eastern Mediterranean. The city fabric consists of medieval souks, which has hampered any attempt to excavate the underlying old city layers. The land where the necropolis was discovered sits at the bottom of the Hlaliyeh hill, at an altitude of 35 m (115 ft), and at a distance of 500 m (550 yd) from the sea. At the time of its discovery, it was bound on its east side by the aqueduct that supplied the city of Sidon with water, and on its north, west, and south sides by fruit tree groves. The large grove to the west of the site was known as Bostan el-Maghara  (Arabic: بستان المغارة ; the Grove of the Cave).[57]
The Ayaa plot was roughly rectangular, measuring 100 m × 250 m (330 ft × 820 ft), and belonged to Mehmed Cherif Efendi, a Sidonian particular. It was barren and uncultivated, and contained remnants of an ancient ashlar wall that Ernest Renan took note of in his survey.[57]
Bostan el-Magara, also known as the "Garden of the caves," is located in Ayaa and is home to a number of underground hypogeums. The entrance to these hypogeums is located in a garden to the west of the excavation site and can be accessed by descending a few steps. These hypogeums were explored in 1888 and were found to contain tombs from the Christian period, as well as cippes and a marble head from the Roman period. The marble head was purchased by Joseph Durighello for 5 pounds.[1]
Three years after the extraction of the sarcophagi, the area was visited by Edmond Durighello, who noted that the tomb had not been protected and had been quarried for its rocks by local farmers.[58]
The underground chambers were accessible through a square vertical shaft that ended with a central vestibule. The four faces of the shaft were roughly aligned with the cardinal points and measured around 3.7 m (12 ft) each. The depth of the well, down to the vestibule floor, was 10.2 m (33 ft), including the 1 m (3.3 ft) meter deep soil layer. On the eastern wall of the well, at a depth of 6 meters, three rows of well-cut ashlar blocks were laid to prevent the collapse of the shaft. The vestibule opened on all four sides, at varying depths, into four different funerary vaults, to which Hamdi Bey assigned Roman numbers as they were being cleared: Vault I to the East, Vault II to the West, Vault IV to the South, Vault V to the North (see attached diagram).[50]
On the eastern wall of the vestibule, lay the entrance to the first rock cut chamber dubbed Vault I by Hamdi Bey. Vault 1 had a low-ceiling measuring 1.8 m (5.9 ft) in height, and was accessible though a 1.7 m (5.6 ft) high and 1.6 m (5.2 ft) wide door. The entrance to this tomb had been walled shut, but the intruders had removed several masonry stone to enter. The vault measured 4.25 m × 3.35 m (13.9 ft × 11.0 ft), gradually widening towards the back to reach a width of 3.9 m (13 ft). Vault 1 contained three sarcophagi. Sarcophagus 1, named the "Sarcophagus of the mourning women", was made of white marble in the Ionic style. It was adorned with sculptures depicting mourning women. Sarcophagus 2, also made of white marble, was much smaller in size and devoid of any decoration.[59]
Both sarcophagi had been violated: Sarcophagus 1's lid was broken at the southwest corner and the lid of sarcophagus 2 had been raised, and held in place by a piece of a damaged decorative pilaster from Sarcophagus 1. Hamdi Bey observed looters had not suspected the presence of a third sarcophagus (dubbed Sarcophagus 17) in the same chamber. This latter was made of black basalt, and was of Egyptian origin; it was located beneath Sarcophagus 1 and was discovered later during the clearing of the hypogeum.[59]
Facing this first tomb, on the western wall of the well, there was a second chamber (Vault II), measuring 3.6 m × 3.4 m (12 ft × 11 ft). This tomb's entrance was also walled up, and breached by looters. The height of the Vault II was 2 m (6.6 ft). In the middle of the vault, a rectangular pit was excavated, measuring 1.5 m × 3 m (4.9 ft × 9.8 ft), and 2.35 m (7.7 ft) deep. At the bottom of this first pit, lay another smaller rectangular pit, measuring 0.6 m × 1.1 m (2.0 ft × 3.6 ft), and 0.35 m (1.1 ft), and was filled with human bones.[60] North of these pits, a very small originally sealed rock cut niche was found, barely accommodating a white marble anthropoid sarcophagus (Sarcophagus 3) that was also looted. This niche measured 2.35 m × 1.2 m (7.7 ft × 3.9 ft), and had a height of 1.2 m (3.9 ft). The large pit leading to this small tomb had initially been filled with soil, over which a regular layer of rectangular stones was placed to level tomb II.[59]
The south of Vault II, gave access to a third chamber (Vault III) through a 2.4 m (7.9 ft) wide door. This vault was the finest, and the largest, measuring 6.1 m (20 ft) in width at the entrance and narrowing to 6 m (20 ft) at the rear. Its length was 6.4 m (21 ft), and the ceiling height was 2.75 m (9.0 ft). A small groove was carved into the floor surrounding the walls to collect seepage water. On the walls, a horizontal red line was visible, indicating symmetrically spaced rectangular openings. These openings were likely meant for accommodating large beams horizontally placed across the tomb, possibly to secure the sarcophagus lids using ropes. Like all the other tombs, the original entrance had been walled up, but the entrance of this specific tomb displayed more intricate craftsmanship. Two massive, finely cut stone blocks, measuring 1.75 m × 0.55 m (5.7 ft × 1.8 ft) served as architraves. This tomb housed four sarcophagi (Sarcophagus 4, 5, 6, and 7), all looted. The largest and finest among them was Sarcophagus 7 (the Alexander Sarcophagus), adorned with exceptional bas-reliefs that impressively retained their polychrome paint. The three others, of the same shape as the Alexander Sarcophagus, were almost identical but were simple and lacked any sculpted figures on their troughs.[61]
The south wall of the vestibule opens to Vault IV which was carved 2 m (6.6 ft) lower than the previous chambers and contained two sarcophagi. Vault IV was 3.5 m (11 ft) high, and measured 4 m (13 ft) wide at the entrance, widening to 4.5 m (15 ft) at its far end. The entrance to this chamber was 2.9 m (9.5 ft) high and 2.1 m (6.9 ft) wide. The first sarcophagus (Sarcophagus 8) was carved from black basaltic rock and of simple design. Sarcophagus 9, dubbed the Lycian sarcophagus was made of Parian marble.[62]
The north wall of the vestibule opens to Vault V, which itself served as a vestibule leading to vaults VI and VII . Vault V measured 2 m × 3 m (6.6 ft × 9.8 ft) and was carved 2.1 m (6.9 ft) below the level of the main vestibule. Its North wall housed a niche, carved at a height of 1.8 m (5.9 ft). This niche was 1.2 m (3.9 ft) deep, 2.7 m (8.9 ft) wide, and 1.6 m (5.2 ft) high. The niche housed Sarcophagus 10, crafted from plain limestone and featuring a simple design, which was also looted. An intact alabaster vase was found next to this sarcophagus.[63]
Vault VI was accessible through a door on the west wall of Vault V. It measured 4.7 m × 4.4 m (15 ft × 14 ft) and had a height of 2.7 m (8.9 ft). Inside, there were four sarcophagi, all made of white marble and labeled as Hamdy Bey Sarcophagus 13, 14, 15, and 16. Among them, Sarcophagus 16, known as the Sarcophagus of the Satrap, was adorned with sculptures, while the other three had a simple yet elegant design. All the sarcophagi from this vault were looted.[64]
Vault VII, which opens to the east of Vault V, is the smallest of all. It measures 3.2 m (10 ft) in length and 2.5 m (8.2 ft) in width, with a ceiling height of only 1.8 m (5.9 ft). Like the previous vaults, this vault was walled up. It contained two looted sarcophagi (sarcophagi 11 and 12); Sarcophagus 11, is an anthropoid sarcophagus made of white marble. The other, simple in design, is also made of white marble, is similar in shape to sarcophagi 2, 10, and 14.[65]
The lid measures 2.87 m × 1.56 m (9.4 ft × 5.1 ft) and 0.4 m (1.3 ft) high. It features a relief of a funerary procession, pediments, sphinxes, acrtoteria, and nine downspouts in the shape of lion heads.[68] Traces of polychromic paint were still found on parts of the sarcophagus lid and trough.[69] Dimensions according to Hitzl: Trough 2.659 m × 1.385 m (8.72 ft × 4.54 ft) and 1.28 m (4.2 ft) Lid dimensions: 2.789 m × 1.497 m (9.15 ft × 4.91 ft) and 50 cm (20 in) high lid.[70]
The pit in the same Vault II; it was completely filled with bones, among which no objects were found.[72]
The base of the trough is adorned with a row of heart-shaped motifs, while the top features rows of pearls and ovoid elements. Four sculpted panels, framed by a band of palmettes, adorn the faces of the sarcophagus. They represent scenes of a banquet, a journey and a lion hunt.[82]
Contained human remains. Not of interest and left in situ.[81] Dimensions: 2.2 m × 0.8 m (7.2 ft × 2.6 ft) height not documented.[81]
The British Surrealist Group was involved in the organisation of the International Surrealist Exhibition in London in 1936.
The London Bulletin was published by the Surrealist Group in England, according to the June 1940 edition (nos. 18-19-20), edited by E. L. T. Mesens.

This article about an art or artists' organization is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about an organisation in the United Kingdom is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Acco Festival of Alternative Israeli Theatre (also Acco Fringe Theatre Festival, Israel Fringe Theatre Festival) is a four-day performing arts festival held annually in the city of Acre, Israel during the Intermediate Days of the Sukkot holiday in early autumn.
Founded in 1980, the festival features a competition for original plays that premier during the festival, along with local and foreign theatre productions, street theatre and open-air performances. There are also concerts, arts and crafts workshops, and lectures.[1]
The majority of the Festival's plays come from outside the mainstream of establishment Israeli theatre, some having avantgarde characteristics and subjects giving outlet to their creators' personal statements. Some combine media and genres such as pantomime, clowning, video, dance, and performance art rarely seen in the conventional theatre. Many are staged in historic venues within the Old City of Acre, such as its Crusader-era citadel and knights' halls that have undergone conservation.
The Festival has been produced by the Municipality of Akko since the year 2000. It is supported by the Israel Ministry of Culture, the Old Acre Development Company and overseas philanthropic foundations.
The Acre Festival has become a symbol of coexistence between the city's Jewish and Arab inhabitants. Each year's program features works by Arab playwrights and troupes along with performances by music ensembles. Performance projects led by theatre professionals provide training for local Arab and Jewish teens, including immigrant youth.
The Festival has been postponed and scaled down twice due to interethnic disturbances: during the October 2000 events of the Second Intifada, and in 2008 due to the Yom Kippur riots, after which the Festival was held during the Hanukkah holiday week.[2]
In 2018, it was noted that the “multi-ethnic” Festival’s signs were posted in Hebrew only, avoiding Arabic, although Arabic is the native language of one third of the population of the city, and Arabic had been taken of the Festival’s logo. Member of Knesset Aida Touma-Suleiman, who lives in Acre, filed a complaint. In a reaction, the municipality wrote: “Acre is a model of coexistence and nobody can lecture us on that.”[3]
Dewey Ballantine LLP was a corporate law firm headquartered in New York City. In 2007, Dewey Ballantine merged with LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae to form Dewey & LeBoeuf. Dewey Ballantine underwent numerous name changes throughout its history as partners left to serve in government positions or form new firms.
In 1909, three recent Harvard Law School graduates created a law partnership on Wall Street. The founding partners were Francis W. Bird, Grenville Clark, and Elihu Root, Jr., and named the firm Root, Clark & Bird. The firm took advantages of Root's connections through his father, Elihu Root, a former Senator and Cabinet member. This gave them entry to high financial circles, establishing a thriving law practice.
In 1913, the firm merged with the firm of Buckner & Howland (recently founded by Emory Buckner) to form Root, Clark, Buckner & Howland.
In 1919, Arthur A. Ballantine, the Internal Revenue Service's first solicitor, joined the firm. He and Emory Buckner ran the firm throughout the 1920s and 1930s. During the Great Depression, the firm flourished by moving away from its traditional focus on litigation and to begin focusing on bankruptcy and reorganizations, and then by taking advantage of the New Deal to build a thriving regulatory practice.
The firm also built up a corporate practice, serving clients such as AT&T and Standard Oil. Overall, the firm expanded from 8 to 74 associates and opened a second office in Washington, D.C.  Both Henry Friendly and John Marshall Harlan II worked at the firm during this period.
The firm weathered many name changes from its founding through 1955, as named partners left the firm for periods of time to serve in a number of important government positions. Among them was Emory Buckner, who left to become United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York and is often credited with remaking that office into a professional prosecutorial office by declining to appoint Assistants based on party affiliation. Partner Grenville Clark served as United States Postmaster General. Later generations of partners included John Marshall Harlan II, who left the firm when appointed to serve as a Judge of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals and who later became an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court; Henry J. Friendly, who left with several partners to form the firm of Cleary, Friendly, Gottlieb & Steen (now Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP) and later was appointed to serve on the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
In 1955, Governor Thomas E. Dewey joined the firm as a partner after leaving office and the firm, then called Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, became Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood. It shortened the name to Dewey Ballantine in 1990 and later adopted the limited liability partnership form, becoming Dewey Ballantine LLP.
In 1961, Dewey invited Richard M. Nixon to move to New York following his loss in the presidential election and join the firm, but Nixon opted to remain in California and run for governor the following year.
On October 25, 2006, the firm announced that it would merge with the San Francisco-based, Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe. With over 1,500 attorneys, the combined firm would have been among the 10 largest firms in the United States.[2] Ultimately, however, the two firms were not able to successfully negotiate the merger and it was called off in January 2007.[3] At about that time, Dewey Ballantine had approximately 500 attorneys in 12 offices around the world.
On October 1, 2007, Dewey Ballantine merged with LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae to form the combined firm of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP. The combined firm had over 1,400 attorneys in 27 offices around the world. The headquarters for the newly merged Dewey & LeBoeuf was placed in the legacy Dewey Ballantine offices in the Calyon Building in Midtown Manhattan. The successor firm, Dewey & LeBoeuf, collapsed in May 2012 due to debt resulting from a poor partner recruiting and compensation strategy, which led to and was exacerbated by a talent exodus.[4]
The anime  series Code Geass by Sunrise has been adapted into various series of light novels. First serialized in Kadokawa Shoten's The Sneaker magazine, they are divided into two separate series corresponding with the series two seasons. The first series, Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion, spanned five volumes with the first, labelled as volume 0, released in Japan on April 28, 2007, and the last on February 29, 2008.[1][2] All five volumes in the first series of novels have been released in English by Bandai Visual as licensed in December 2007.[3] The first volume was released in November 2008 and the last one on February 23, 2010.[2][4]
The series focus on how the former prince Lelouch Lamperouge obtains a power known as Geass and decides to use it destroy the Holy Britannian Empire. The first novel acts as a prologue, focusing on how Lelouch befriended Suzaku Kururugi, the son of Japan's last prime minister, when the former and his sister Nunnally Lamperouge were sent to Japan as political hostages.
The second novel series, Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion R2, covers the second season of the anime series in which Lelouch continues his battle against the Britannian Empire. It was released in four volumes from May 31, 2008, to February 28, 2009.[5][6] A single volume side story novel, Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion Red Tracks (コードギアス 反逆のルルーシュ 朱の軌跡, Kōdo Giasu: Hangyaku no Rurūshu Shu no Kiseki) was released on March 29, 2008, in Japan. It focuses on the life of teenage girl Kallen Stadtfeld who becomes a soldier from the organization the Black Knights under Lelouch's leadership to defeat Britannia.[7]
Badara Traore (born March 12, 1997) is an American football offensive tackle for the Carolina Panthers of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at LSU.[1][2]
Traore was born to Bakary Traore and Rouguiatou Kaba, both African immigrants, and grew up in Hyde Park, Massachusetts. He attended Matignon High School, where he played on the football and basketball teams and commuted two hours each way.[3]
Traore played two seasons at ASA College in Brooklyn, New York. In 2018, he transferred to Louisiana State University to continue his collegiate football career, turning down offers from 26 schools, including Oklahoma, Auburn, and Texas.[4][5] In his first season at LSU, he played in all 13 games, starting 2 of them, and was referred to as "one of the most improved players on the team" by head coach Ed Orgeron.[6] Going into his senior year, Traore served as the backup right tackle to Austin Deculus and took snaps on special teams. During his final season at LSU, he played in 13 games and earned 3 starts against Georgia Southern, Ole Miss, and Arkansas (one at left tackle and two at right tackle).
Traore was signed by the Chicago Bears as an undrafted free agent following the 2020 NFL Draft on April 25, 2020.[8] He was waived on September 5, 2020, and was signed to the practice squad the following day.[9][10] On October 10, 2020, Traore was placed on the reserve/COVID-19 list after testing positive for COVID-19.[11] He signed a reserve/futures contract with the Bears on January 11, 2021.[12] On August 24, 2021, he was waived by the Bears.[13]
On August 25, 2021, Traore was claimed off waivers by the Jacksonville Jaguars.[14] He was waived on August 31, 2021, and re-signed to the practice squad the next day.[15][16] Traore made his NFL debut on January 9, 2022, against the Indianapolis Colts.[17] He signed a reserve/future contract on January 10, 2022.[18]
On August 29, 2022, Traore was waived by the Jaguars.[19]
On September 1, 2022, Traore was signed to the Arizona Cardinals practice squad.[20] On October 29, 2022, he was elevated to the active roster.[21] He signed a reserve/future contract on January 11, 2023.[22] On August 29, 2023, Traore was released by the Cardinals as part of final roster cuts before the start of the 2023 season.[23]
On December 18, 2023, Traore signed a letter of intent to join the DC Defenders of the XFL for the upcoming 2024 season.[24] The next day, Traore was signed to the Carolina Panthers' practice squad.[25] He signed a reserve/future contract on January 8, 2024.[26]
Traore graduated from Louisiana State University in 2020 with a bachelor's degree in interdisciplinary studies.[27] He has a younger brother, Boubacar, who played defensive end at Catholic Memorial School in West Roxbury, MA; and began playing for Notre Dame in 2023.[28]
The Florentine calendar, also referred to as the stylus Florentinus ("Florentine style"), was the calendar used in the Republic of Florence in Italy during the Middle Ages. Unusually, both the beginning of the day and the beginning of the year differed from the traditional Julian calendar.
The Florentine day began at sunset and ended at the following sunset, such that the whole day was shifted forwards by (up to) several hours when compared to the modern day (running from midnight to midnight). As such, a reference to an event at "two hours into the day" meant two hours after sunset, and occurred on the previous day by modern reckoning. By way of example, 10 August in the Florentine calendar covers the period from sunset on 9 August in the modern calendar until sunset on 10 August. Conversely, 10 August in the modern calendar runs from midnight (several hours into the day) on 10 August in the Florentine calendar until midnight on 11 August.
The Florentine year began on 25 March, and not on 1 January, with the apparent year lagging behind the traditional Julian calendar.[1] Thus, 31 December 1200 was followed by 1 January 1200 (not 1201, as it would become in the Julian calendar), and the year remained the same until 24 March 1200. This was then followed by 25 March 1201, the day on which the two calendars synchronised. This is the reason that some dates have an apparent discrepancy of one year. For example, a birth date of 10 March 1552 in Florentine reckoning translates to 10 March 1553 in the Julian calendar, setting aside any discrepancy due to the differing start of the day.
Beginning the year on a date other than 1 January was common during the mediaeval period. The first day of the year falling on 25 March meant that the Florentine calendar was in the stile dell'Annunciazione ("style of the Annunciation") or stile dell'Incarnazione ("style of the Incarnation") - also styled in Latin as ab [Dominica] incarnatione ("from the [Lord's] Incarnation") - by reference to the Solemnity of the Annunciation, which also saw use in the Sienese, English and Scottish calendars. The Pisan calendar, as well as those of Cortona and Pistoia, were also in this style, but confusingly ran ahead of the Julian calendar rather than behind, resulting in them lying exactly one year ahead of the Florentine calendar. By contrast, calendars in the stile della Natività ("style of the Nativity") as in Arezzo, Assisi and Perugia began on the Solemnity of the Nativity of the Lord (Christmas) on 25 December, the Venetian calendar began on 1 March until the Fall of the Venetian Republic, and the French year on Easter day until 1564. The traditional Julian calendar was sometimes said to be in the stile della Circoncisione ("style of the Circumcision"). See beginning of the year.
Italy was one of the few regions to immediately convert from the Julian calendar to the Gregorian: 4 October 1582 was followed by 15 October 1582, the latter being the first day of the new Gregorian calendar. Not until 1749, however, were the ancient calendars definitively outlawed in Tuscany: in that year the recently appointed Grand Duke and Holy Roman Emperor, Francis I, ordered that, starting from 1750, the first of January should become the first day of the year, thus having the "peoples of Tuscia" conform to all the others. A plaque in Latin commemorating the grand ducal/imperial decree is affixed to the west wall of the Loggia dei Lanzi, in Piazza della Signoria.[a]
Milo Dor (7 March 1923 – December 2005) was a Serbian Austrian writer and translator. He described himself as "an Austrian, Viennese, and European of Serbian heritage."[1]
Milo Dor was born in  to a Serbian family in Budapest, as Milutin Doroslovac. His father was a surgeon, his mother lead a beauty salon. Dor grew up in the Banat and later in Belgrade. In highschool, he was a member of the Communist Youth and wrote lyrics. Having organised a school strike in 1940, he was expelled. Nevertheless, he passed his final exams in the following year. He participated in the resistance movement against the German occupants. In 1942, he was arrested; stays in prison and camps followed until he was deported to Vienna in 1943. A year later, he was arrested again and put into "protective custody" (a euphemism used by the Nazis for the rounding-up of political opponents).
After World War II, Dor stayed in Austria, studying drama and Romance languages at the University of Vienna until 1949 while working as a German writing journalist. From 1951, he was a member of the literary association Group 47. He was also a member of the Austrian PEN Club and president of the Austrian Writers Federation. Dor lived in Vienna and at times in Rovinj with his second wife, with whom he had been married since 1955, until her death in 2002. His son is the Austrian film-maker Milan Dor.
Milo Dor died early on 5 December 2005 from heart failure in a hospital in Vienna and was interred in an honorary grave at the Zentralfriedhof.
My forefathers took themselves for Serbs because they had fled from the Turks to Austria, three hundred years ago, together with other people taking themselves for Serbs. So they became Austrians. My mother's father married a Greek woman... They communicated in German. When I dug further, I found out that my forefathers' forefathers were Thracians... The more I think about it, the more I feel as a Thracian.
Milo Dor, Ein Fremder unter lauter Ausländern[2]Milo Dor wrote historical novels dealing with Yugoslavian and European history, essays criticising nationalism in Yugoslavia, crime fiction, news coverages, screenplays and radio dramas, edited documentaries and anthologies and translated Serbo-Croatian literature into German. Authors he translated include Ivo Andrić, Isaak Babel, Bogdan Bogdanović, Stephen Crane, Dušan Kovačević, Miroslav Krleža, Branislav Nušić, Vasko Popa, Georges Simenon, Stanislav Vinaver, and Milovan Vitezović. Beginning in the 1950s, he wrote numerous books in cooperation with Reinhard Federmann.
Dor's best known work is The Raikow Saga, a trilogy consisting of Tote auf Urlaub [Dead men on leave], Nichts als Erinnerung [Nothing but memories], and Die weiße Stadt [The white town]. The hero of these novels is the autobiographically coloured figure Mladen Raikow.
The following of his books are available in English:[3]
25 Años (25 Years) (1993) is the tenth studio album by Mexican rock and blues band El Tri.
The name is a reference to the duration of the career of Alex Lora who started playing in 1968 with the past incarnation of the band known as Three Souls in My Mind.
The most remarkable song of the album is the single "Pobre Soñador" a romantic hymn.
All tracks are written by Alex Lora, except where noted
Zhou Shengtao (Chinese: 周声涛; born April 1944) is a Chinese politician who served as party branch secretary of the All China Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives [zh] from 2002 to 2007. He was a member of the 14th CCP Central Commission for Discipline Inspection. He was an alternate member of the 15th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and a member of the 16th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party.[1][2] He was a member of the Standing Committee of the 11th National People's Congress.
Zhou was born in Dongtai County, Jiangsu, in April 1944. He secondary studied at Anfeng High School. In 1962, he entered Nanjing Normal University, majoring in mathematics. He joined the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) in May 1966, when he was about to graduate. 
After University in 1967, he was assigned to the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, where he was eventually elevated to secretary of its Discipline Inspection Commission in April 1987. He was appointed secretary of Discipline Inspection Commission of CCP Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regional Committee in March 1991 and was admitted to member of the Standing Committee of the CCP Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regional Committee, the region's top authority. He was made deputy party secretary of Xinjiang in February 1996, concurrently serving as secretary of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regional Political and Legal Affairs Commission since April 1998.
In September 2002, he was transferred to Beijing and appointed party branch secretary of the All China Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives [zh]. He also served as executive deputy director of the Council between February 2003 and March 2010.[3] In March 2008, he was chosen as vice chairperson of the National People's Congress Ethnic Affairs Committee, serving in the post until his retirement in March 2013.
The Answer: Does Not Exist EP is the second EP created by the band The Ottoman Empire. It was released in March 2008. This was the last album by The Ottoman Empire before they changed their name to Luna Mortis.
Terms pertaining to American mortgages include:
Main two types
Origination and Re-Financing

This finance-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Fred (Frédéric) Belaubre (born 14 February 1980 in Poissy), is a French professional triathlete. He was the European Champion of the years 2005, 2006, and 2008, the French Champion of the years 2007 and 2010. Belaubre took part in two Olympic Games, placing 5th in Athens (2004) and 10th in Beijing (2008).
Fred Belaubre lives in St. Raphael and is part of the nearby high performance centre CREPS PACA in Boulouris, to which he was admitted in 1996.
Since 2009, as in the years 2006–2007, his coach has been Pierre Houseaux, the head of the triathlon section of the Pôle Boulouris.
In France, Fred Belaubre represents the club Beauvais Triathlon, for which he could win the silver medal in the prestigious Club Championship Series Lyonnaise des Eaux in 2009.[1]
In 2010, Belaubre also represented EJOT in the German Bundesliga circuit.[2] In 2011, when his French club Beauvais will boycott the French Club Championship series Lyonnaise des Eaux, he will again represent EJOT, like his teammate Charlotte Morel.
According to French press reports, Fred Belaubre and Charlotte Morel, who is also part of the elite centre CREPS PACA in Boulouris and the elite team of Beauvais, are a couple.[3]
Fred Belaubre's father, Georges Belaubre, is also a well-known triathlete and in 2010, at the age of 66, he won the national championships in his age group (V6).[4]
Fred Belaubre started to take part in ITU events in 1999, at the age of 19. In 2000 he could win the gold medal at the Junior World Championships.
From 2001 on, he has only taken part in elite competitions.
In April 2011, Belaubre opened the new season with two European Cup silver medals.
In the twelve years from 1999 to 2010 Belaubre took part in 58 ITU competitions and achieved 28 top ten positions, the most recent of which in 2009.
The following list is based upon the official rankings and the athlete's ITU Profile Page.[5] Unless indicated otherwise, the following events are triathlons (Olympic Distance) and belong to the Elite category.
BG = the sponsor British Gas · DNF = did not finish · DNS = did not start · DQ = disqualified
Gudanjir (Persian: گودانجير, also Romanized as Gūdānjīr) is a village in Haparu Rural District, in the Central District of Bagh-e Malek County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 131, in 24 families.[1]


This Bagh-e Malek County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 2000 Ramallah lynching[1] was a violent incident that took place on October 12, 2000 – early in the Al-Aqsa Intifada – at the el-Bireh police station, where a Palestinian crowd of passing funeral marchers broke in and killed and mutilated the bodies of two Israel Defense Forces reservists.[2]
Vadim Nurzhitz and Yosef "Yossi" Avrahami[a] had accidentally[3] entered the Palestinian Authority-controlled city of Ramallah in the West Bank and were taken into custody by Palestinian Authority policemen, 13 of whom were injured while trying to stop the lynching.[4] Tensions had been escalating prior to the incident; over 100 Palestinians, nearly two dozen of them minors, had been killed in the preceding two weeks; the escalating violence had been condemned just five days beforehand by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1322.[2][5][6]
The incident was filmed by several media outlets, and caused a stir in Israel and elsewhere.
Two drivers in the IDF reserve, chief sergeant ("rav samal", OR-7) Yossi Avrahami (38)[7] of Petah Tikva, a toy salesman,[8] and corporal ("rav turai", OR-4) Vadim Nurzhitz (33)[9][10] of Or Akiva,[11] a truckdriver who had made aliyah from Irkutsk  10 years earlier,[12] returned to duty that day.  Nurzhitz set out at 7 a.m. in his Ford Escort, picked up Avrahami and phoned his father at 9 a.m., stating that he had been ordered to turn up at an army base near the Israeli settlement of Beit El.[12]
The two reservist drivers[4] made their way in a civilian vehicle[13] towards their unit's assembly point near the settlement of Beit El. They had little army experience, were unfamiliar with the West Bank road system and drove through the military checkpoint outside Beitunia and headed straight into the Palestinian town of Ramallah 2 miles east of the checkpoint.[13]
Reaching a Palestinian Authority roadblock, where previously Israeli soldiers had been turned back, the reservists were detained by PA policemen and taken to the local police station at Ramallah's twin city el-Bireh, not far from Arafat's headquarters.[14]  The arrest and detention coincided with the conclusion of a funeral service, attended by thousands of mourners, for Halil Zahran (17), a Palestinian youth who had been killed in clashes with Israeli forces two days earlier.[4] Tensions were running high: over 100 Palestinians, nearly two dozen of them minors, had been killed in the preceding two weeks in violent protests with Israeli forces in Ramallah,[5] and four days earlier, the badly beaten body of Issam Hamad (36) had been dumped outside of the city after being run over by a car, an autopsy revealed. His death, according to Marwan Bishara of Al Jazeera, was attributed by locals to settlers in Halamish.[6]
Rumors quickly spread that Israeli undercover agents were in the building, and an angry crowd of more than 1,000 Palestinians gathered in front of the station calling for the death of the Israelis. Word that two soldiers were held in a Ramallah police station reached Israel within 15 minutes. According to Roni Shaked, the IDF itself thought initially that the two must have been "undercover agents".[4] According to the Ramallah station chief, there were 21 policemen in the building, some of whom were cooks and administrative personnel, since many policemen had been dispersed throughout the city to control the crowd during the funeral.[4] The IDF decided against a rescue operation. Soon after, Palestinian rioters stormed the building, overcame the Palestinian police and murdered and mutilated both soldiers. Both Haaretz and Maariv reported that approximately 13 Palestinian policemen were injured while attempting to stop the lynching.[4] Jamal Tirawi, the Palestinian Intelligence chief at the Mukata'a nearby, only intervened hours after the second soldier lay dying.[14]
The Israeli reservists were beaten and stabbed. At this point, a Palestinian (later identified as Aziz Salha), appeared at the window, displaying his blood-soaked hands to the crowd, which erupted into cheers. The crowd clapped and cheered as one of the soldier's bodies was then thrown out the window and stamped and beaten by the frenzied crowd. One of the two was shot and set on fire, and his head was beaten to a pulp.[15] Soon after, the crowd dragged the two mutilated bodies to Al-Manara Square in the city center and began an impromptu victory celebration.[16][17][18][19] Police officers tried to confiscate footage from reporters.[16]
The brutality of the murders shocked the Israeli public,[20] intensifying Israeli distrust of Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat. The event also deeply damaged the Israeli left-wing's faith in the Israeli–Palestinian peace process. Israeli author and peace campaigner Amos Oz said "Without any doubt, I blame the Palestinian leadership. They clearly did not want to sign an agreement at Camp David. Maybe Arafat prefers to be Che Guevara than Fidel Castro. If he becomes the president of Palestine, he'll be the leader of a rough, Third World country and have to deal with sewage in Hebron, drugs in Gaza, and the corruption in his own government."[21][22]
In response, the Israeli military launched a series of strikes against Palestinian Authority targets in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Israeli forces sealed off several Palestinian cities and deployed troops, tanks, and armored vehicles. IDF helicopters fired rockets at two PA police stations in Ramallah (the police station where the lynching took place was destroyed); the Beit Lahia headquarters of Tanzim, the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades; and buildings near Arafat's headquarters in Gaza City. Israeli Navy gunboats were reportedly seen offshore. Six Palestinian Authority naval boats were destroyed. Later in the day, Israeli helicopters destroyed the Voice of Palestine radio station in Ramallah. According to Palestinian sources, a total of 27 people were injured in the attacks.[16][23] Israeli authorities state that the PA was warned before the attacks, and that a warning shot was fired before every attack, in order to empty the buildings about to be attacked.[24]
An Italian film crew, later learned to be employees of Mediaset, Italy's largest private television station, captured footage of the lynching.[25]
British photographer Mark Seager attempted to photograph the event but the mob physically assaulted him and destroyed his camera. After the event, he stated, "It [the lynching] was the most horrible thing that I have ever seen and I have reported from Congo, Kosovo, many bad places.... I know they [Palestinians] are not all like this and I'm a very forgiving person but I'll never forget this. It was murder of the most barbaric kind. When I think about it, I see that man's head, all smashed. I know that I'll have nightmares for the rest of my life."[15]
An ABC News team also attempted to record the incident but the mob also prevented them from doing so. ABC News producer Nasser Atta said that when the crew began filming the lynching, "youths came to us and they stopped us with some knives, with some beating."[26]
Following the lynching on October 16, 2000, Riccardo Cristiano, the deputy head of the Jerusalem bureau of Italy's state television channel RAI, published a letter (see text) in Al-Hayat al-Jadida, the official daily newspaper of the Palestinian Authority (PA). In the letter (entitled "Special Clarification by the Italian Representative of RAI, the Official Italian Television Station"), Cristiano denies that RAI had any involvement with the filming of the incident and that one of the station's Italian competitors was responsible for the footage. He wrote, "We [RAI] emphasize to all of you that the events did not happen this way, because we always respect (will continue to respect) the journalistic procedures with the Palestinian Authority for (journalistic) work in Palestine and we are credible in our precise work." The Italian correspondent also praised the PA, declaring, "We congratulate you [the PA] and think that it is our duty to put you in the picture (of the events) of what happened on October 12 in Ramallah.... We thank you for your trust, and you can be sure that this is not our way of acting. We do not (will not) do such a thing."[17]
As a result of the letter, the Israeli Government Press Office suspended Cristiano's press card. The Israeli Foreign Ministry stated, "His letter implies that he will never again film events which are liable to cast a negative light on the PA, such as the recent lynching of IDF reservists in Ramallah.... The State of Israel, as a democratic society, welcomes the foreign journalists working here and invests considerable effort in both assuring freedom of the press and assisting journalists in their work. All that we ask from foreign journalists is that they abide by the rules of press ethics as is accepted in democratic societies."[17]
Cristiano's letter, which effectively identified Mediaset as being responsible for the footage, necessitated Mediaset to withdraw its staff out of fear of Palestinian revenge attacks. In response, Italian politician Silvio Berlusconi, whose family holding company controls Mediaset, said, "The letter is indicative of an anti-semitic attitude in elements of the Italian left." The Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera declared it a shameful day for Italian journalism.[25]
For its part, RAI disowned the letter and recalled Cristiano, stating, "He will no longer work from Jerusalem. RAI had no knowledge of the letter and its content." Regarding Cristiano's motives for the letter, RAI asserted that the journalist had recently been injured while covering other Palestinian riots and he wished to dispel rumors that RAI was responsible for the footage.[25]
In relation to media coverage of the event, the Israeli Foreign Ministry accused Palestinian broadcasting stations of making "every effort to hide the horrible pictures which were shown around the world." The ministry further asserted that "according to reporters' evidence on the scene," the Palestinian police attempted to prevent foreign journalists from entering the area in order to obstruct reporting of the incident.[17]
After he assumed office, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon ordered the Israeli security services to find and arrest the lynchers. Israel subsequently tracked down those responsible:
‡ indicates the terrorist attack which caused the greatest amount of Israeli casualties during the 2000s
31°54′18″N 35°12′16″E﻿ / ﻿31.9050°N 35.2044°E﻿ / 31.9050; 35.2044
Maximilian Toch (July 17, 1864 – May 28, 1946) was an American paint manufacturer and industrial chemist who developed a concrete filler method that was used in the construction of the Panama Canal. He was the co-owner of the New York firms Toch Brothers and the Standard Varnish Works, where he was head of research and production. Before and during World War I, he was a major contributor to the development of ship camouflage in the United States, as well as an early practitioner of the use of chemistry in the authentication of works of art.
According to an obituary in the New York Times (1946), Toch was born and raised in New York. He attended Cooper Union[1]  and New York University as an undergraduate, then completed his graduate studies at Columbia University. He also earned degrees in law. He taught chemistry and chemical engineering and industrial chemistry at colleges and universities, including Cooper Union, Beijing University, Columbia University, City College of New York, and the National Academy of Design.
According to the New York Times (1946), in which Toch is referred to as "America’s first camoufleur",[2] his contribution to ship camouflage included originating the color adopted by the U.S. Navy as standard "battleship gray". By his own account (Toch 1919), he had camouflaged fortifications in Panama as early as 1915, the success of which led to his being assigned to camouflage shipyards and docks on the East Coast of the U.S. during World War I.
In 1917, a ship concealment plan devised by Toch, known as the Toch System, was one of five camouflage measures approved by the U.S. Naval Consulting Board for use on merchant ships (Behrens 2009, pp. 350–351). He became convinced that it was largely impossible to lower the visibility of a ship, but that a better objective would be course deception,[3] popularly known as dazzle camouflage.
Toch’s outspoken views about the use of chemical analysis in authenticating works of art became controversial in the 1920s (Hendrick 1929), when he claimed that the majority of paintings attributed to Rembrandt had not in fact been painted by him (Toch 1931b[clarification needed]), including works in the collections of art museums. As a result, it was said at the time that art dealers "entertain a wholesome fear of him" (Hendrick 1919, p. 704).
Toch produced books on subjects related to chemistry, among them The Chemistry and Technology of Mixed Paints (1907), Materials for Permanent Painting (1911), How To Paint Permanent Pictures (1922), Paint, Paintings and Restoration (1931), and Protection and Decoration of Concrete (1931). He was the uncle of art materials expert Ralph Mayer, author of The Artist’s Handbook (1940).
The Neustadt O.S. district was a Prussian district in Upper Silesia from 1743 to 1945. Its capital was the city of Neustadt (Prudnik). Its territory corresponded roughly to the present-day Prudnik County in the Opole Voivodeship in Poland.
After the conquest of most of Silesia, King Frederick the Great introduced Prussian administrative structures in Lower Silesia in 1742 and in Upper Silesia in 1743.[1] This included the establishment of two war and domain chambers in Breslau (Wrocław) and Glogau (Głogów) as well as their division into districts. The district of Neustadt was initially under the War and Domain Chamber of Breslau. In the course of the Prussian Reform Movement, the administrative region of Oppeln was created in the Province of Silesia, which included the Neustadt district.
During the district reform of January 1, 1818, the district boundaries were changed as follows:[2]
From 1871, the district belonged to the German Empire. The indigenous Polish population was subjected to Germanisation policies. On November 8, 1919, the province of Silesia was dissolved and the new province of Upper Silesia was formed from Regierungsbezirk Oppeln. In the Upper Silesia plebiscite held on March 20, 1921, 88.2% of voters in the Neustadt district voted for Germany and 11.8% voted for Poland. Therefore, the district remained in Germany. The district capital was mentioned as one of the main centers of the Polish movement in the Province of Upper Silesia in a secret Sicherheitsdienst report from 1934.[3] The persecution of Poles intensified since 1937.[4]
During the German invasion of Poland, which started World War II in September 1939, Gestapo carried out mass arrests of Polish activists and closed and seized the funds of Polish banks.[5] The arrested Poles were deported to concentration camps.[6] In the following years, the Germans established several forced labour camps in the district, including a subcamp of the Auschwitz concentration camp and the E600 subcamp of the Stalag VIII-B/344 prisoner-of-war camp.[7][8] In January 1945, the prisoners of the subcamp of Auschwitz were evacuated by the Germans to the Gross-Rosen concentration camp in a death march, and death marches of thousands of prisoners of several other subcamps of Auschwitz passed through the district.[7][9]
After World War II, the district became part of Poland under the terms of the Potsdam Agreement.
According to the Prussian census of 1840, the district had a population of 68,677, of which 35,476 (51.7%) were Germans and 33,201 (48.3%) were Poles.[10]
Judy Esmond (born 27 January 1960 in Perth, Western Australia) is a former Australian cricket player.[1] Esmond played for the Western Australian women's cricket team between 1982 and 1987,[2] and played three One Day Internationals for the Australia national women's cricket team.[1]
This biographical article related to Australian cricket is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Midnight Rendezvous is an EP by the British heavy metal band Tokyo Blade, released in 1984 through the UK independent record label Powerstation Records.[3] The songs were recorded in early 1983 when the band was called Genghis Khan and originally released as double 7" single "Double Dealin".[4]
The four tracks of the EP, combined with four tracks of the band's first album, Tokyo Blade, were published as an LP during the same year by Combat Records in the USA, under the title Midnight Rendezvous. This EP was included in the re-release on CD of the album Tokyo Blade in 1997.
Music by Andy Boulton, lyrics by Alan Marsh
Giovanni Tonoli (22 April 1947 – 25 June 1993) was an Italian cyclist. He competed in the team time trial at the 1972 Summer Olympics.[2]

This biographical article related to an Italian cycling person born in the 1940s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Redondo Beach Wharf Rats were a minor league baseball team based in Redondo Beach, California. In 1910, the Wharf Rats played as members of the short– lived Class D level Southern California Trolley League, winning the championship in the league's only season of play.
Minor league baseball was first hosted in Redondo Beach, California in 1910, as Redondo Beach had a championship team in a shortened season. The Redondo Beach "Wharf Rats" became founding members of the Class D level Southern California Trolley League.[1][2] The team moniker is also listed in some references as the "Sand Dabs." Redondo Beach was one of six charter franchises when the league formed for the 1910 season under league president Jim McCormick. The Redondo Beach Wharf Rats joined the franchises from Long Beach, California (Long Beach Clothiers), Los Angeles, California (Los Angeles McCormicks and Los Angeles Maiers),  Pasadena, California (Pasadena Silk Sox) and Santa Ana, California (Santa Ana Walnut Growers) to form the league.[3][4][5][6][7]  The "Trolley" name was in reference to all the league franchises, Redondo Beach included, being located in the greater Los Angeles, California area, where the league ballparks were accessible via trolley.[8][9][10]
When Redondo Beach and the Southern California Trolley League began play in 1910, games were scheduled only on Sundays, with play to continue all year. The Wharf Rats officially began play on April 3, 1910 under manager George Love.[11][12]
As the season progressed, both the Santa Ana Walnut Growers and Redondo Beach were the top league teams. After three weeks of play, both teams had 3–0 records, after seven weeks they were both 6–1 and after ten weeks they were tied with 8–2 records. In week eleven, the two teams met and Redondo Beach ended the tie in the standings, defeating Santa Ana by the score of 8–2. This was the final week of league play.[11][13]
The Southern California Trolley League had franchises that faced immediate financial difficulty when play began. On May 3, 1910, the Pasadena Silk Sox and the Los Angeles Maiers franchises folded simultaneously, leaving the league reduced to four teams. On June 13, 1910, the entire Southern California Trolley League permanently disbanded. At the time the league folded, the Redondo Beach Warf Rats with a 9–2 record were in 1st place in the California Trolley League Standings. Redondo Beach was followed by the Santa Ana Yellow Sox Growers (8–3), Long Beach Clothiers (4–5) and Los Angeles McCormicks (2–7) in the final Standings. Pitcher Tommy Ybarrondo	of Redondo Beach led the league with 5 wins in the shortened season.[2] After the league folded, it was reported that league president Jim McCormick organized a league meeting at his pool hall on South Spring Street for the purpose of settling the league's affairs. [14][15][16][17]
Redondo Beach has not hosted another minor league franchise.[2] Today, the "Wharf Rats" moniker was adopted by Redondo Beach select youth teams and a vintage baseball team.[18][19]
The name of the 1910 Redondo Beach Wharf Rats' home ballpark is not directly referenced.[20] In 1911, the Boston Red Sox held their spring training in Redondo Beach for one season. The Red Sox were housed at the Hotel Redondo and used a new, "hastily constructed" ballpark for their training and games. The team began spring training on February 24, 1911.[21]
Tomorrow We Live (released as At Dawn We Die in the US), is a 1943 British film directed by George King and starring John Clements, Godfrey Tearle, Greta Gynt, Hugh Sinclair and Yvonne Arnaud.
The film was made during the Second World War, and the action is set in a small town in German-occupied France. It portrays the activities of members of the French Resistance and the Germans' tactic of taking and shooting innocent hostages in reprisal for acts of sabotage. The opening credits acknowledge "the official co-operation of General de Gaulle and the French National Committee".
Dorothy Hope is credited with "original story".
A young French idealist (John Clements), who gives his name as Jean Baptiste, arrives in "St Pierre-le-Port", a small town near Saint-Nazaire, a major port and base of operations for the Kriegsmarine, particularly their U-boats, on the Atlantic coast. Baptiste tells a member of the French Resistance that "I come from Saint-Nazaire. I've details of the submarine base, the docks and power plant. If I can get them to England..."
The first half of the film often has a lighthearted tone; the Germans are portrayed as bumbling and easily outwitted. The German commandant is overweight and gullible.  However, after the Resistance successfully sabotages a German armaments train, the SS take charge of the town, and the occupation takes a brutal turn.
Nicholas Brodzsky is credited for the music, while the orchestration is credited to Roy Douglas, an English composer who was much in demand as an arranger, orchestrator, and copyist of the music of others, notably Richard Addinsell, Ralph Vaughan Williams and William Walton. However it is possible that Brodzsky actually contributed very little. In a memoir in the William Walton Archive, Roy Douglas claimed, "Brodsky was a so-called composer: I had actually composed entire film scores for him, which went under his name". In a letter to Roy Douglas dated 23 December 1943, William Walton wrote, "I'm delighted about your picture. I'll have a good deal to tell you about Brodsky when I see you. In my capacity as music adviser to Two Cities [a film company] it is going to be my duty to have to tick him off!"[2]
Carolina Coach Garage and Shop is a historic intercity bus garage located at Raleigh, North Carolina.  It was built in 1926, and is a one-story, rectangular building measuring approximately 90 feet by 140 feet.  It features a stepped parapet with five levels with original terra cotta coping caps that hides a truss supported gabled roof.  The building housed the Carolina Coach Company maintenance facilities until 1939.[2]
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2009.[1]

This article about a Registered Historic Place in Raleigh, North Carolina is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article related to a building or structure in Raleigh, North Carolina is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Laboy is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Controller 7 (born Tommy McMahon) is an underground hip hop producer from San Jose, California.
Controller 7 released the debut album Left Handed Straw in 2000. It was reissued on 6months in 2001.[1]
He has produced and remixed tracks for Anticon artists such as Sole, Sage Francis and Themselves.[2]
The Bumps mixtape was released in 2005.[3][4]
Lan Yu (Chinese: 兰玉; pinyin: Lán Yù, born January 21, 1986) is a Chinese fashion designer based in Beijing, China. Lan Yu is one of China's new generation of designers and is regarded as one of Asia's most influential designers. Her design aspect is combining traditional Chinese Suzhou embroidery with haute couture. She uses her designs as tools to introduce oriental culture to the world.
She is also the first Chinese designer that was invited to Paris Haute Couture Fashion Week in 2014. In 2016, she was invited to New York Fashion Week to launch her first ready-to-wear collection. She launches 2 haute couture collections and 2 ready-to-wear collections each year. Lan Yu is named “The Chinese Queen of Couture Wedding Dresses” by Chinese media.[1][2]
Lan Yu was born in a hundred-year Suzhou embroidery family. She is the fifth generation descendant of her family. Her mother taught her embroidery skills in her young age. She is also talented on learning making couture dresses. Lan Yu is good at integrating Chinese traditional embroidery with western advanced materials in her designs. Her collections represent the elegant oriental beauty with modern western design perspectives.[3]
She entered The Beijing Institute of Clothing Technology in 2004, and graduated in 2008. That same year she entered New York’s Fashion Institute of Technology.  In 2012 she was awarded an Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) degree by the China Europe International Business School (CEIBS).
Lan Yu’s approach on details creates a unique balanced relationship between spiritual and visual narrative. Lan Yu supports the idea that “every modern woman should be independent with sweet-natured attitude”. This idea deeply planted in Lan Yu's design to create a unique romantic and fantasy dreams for women. The slogan of LANYU "Just for love, just for you" made Lan Yu become the dreammaker of millions of women.
In 2005, she founded LANYU Studio in Beijing. In 2008, Lan Yu Studios was acquired by Chinatex Corporation with Lan remaining as Creative Director while studying in New York. Lan returned to China in 2009 and in September of that year retook control and ownership of Lan Yu Studios. 
Lan's designs balance Chinese embroidery techniques with Western structural designs.[3] Her designs exhibit a knowledge of Su Xiu, a form of traditional Chinese embroidery handed down through three generations of her family, as well as formal studies in Western couture design to produce a style that integrates elements from both cultures.[4] Her pieces are regularly featured on celebrity clients at Cannes, Venice, Tokyo and Berlin Film Festival, as well as China's film festivals and other red carpet events.[5]
Frances E. L. Preston (1844–1929) was an American organizer and lecturer for the National Women’s Christian Temperance Union. She served as President of Michigan Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs in the early 20th century.[1]
Preston was born in Richmond, Virginia, in 1844. Her mother was Louisa Baber, an enslaved woman and her father was John L. Martin, a free man. She moved to Detroit, Michigan, with her parents in 1885.[2]
She was a temperance advocate and traveled across the United States lecturing on the subject for the National Women’s Christian Temperance Union from 1870 to 1890.[2][1]
From 1900 to 1913, Preston was the President of Michigan Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs.[2]
She died in Detroit in 1929.[2]
Azteca barbifex is a species of ant in the genus Azteca. Described by Auguste-Henri Forel in 1906, the species is endemic to North America and South America.[1]

This Dolichoderinae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Uraji Yamakawa (山川 浦路, Yamakawa Uraji, 15 November 1885 – 30 November 1947) was a Japanese actress, also credited as Ura Mita.
In 1912, she and her actor husband were co-founders of the Modern Theatre Society (Kindaigeki Kyokai) in Tokyo, formed to bring new Western works to Japanese audiences.[1][2] In 1914, Yamakawa was considered one of "the foremost interpreters of roles in Western translations" among Japanese actresses.[3][4] Among her notable roles were Henrik Ibsen's Hedda Gabler,[5] Gretchen in Goethe's Faust,[3] and Lady Macbeth, in which role she gave "a most remarkably untraditional sleep-walking scene".[6] The Modern Theatre Society ended in 1919, when the founders moved to the United States.[1][7]
She had small roles in two films during her time in America: The Devil Dancer (1927, now lost; a silent film directed by Fred Niblo) and Wu Li Chang (1930, a Spanish-language production).[8]
Uraji Yamakawa was married to fellow Japanese actor Sōjin Kamiyama; they lived in California while Sōjin was appearing in American films.[9] After they separated, Yamakawa took bit parts, sold makeup, and cared for her adult son, Edward, who had tuberculosis. During this period, she was friends with novelist Toshiko Tamura.[10] However, during World War II she was relocated along with other Japanese-Americans, while her son was not sent together because of his illness (his subsequent fate is unknown). Yamakawa died in 1947, aged 62 years.
Lowell State Recreation Site is a state park in the U.S. state of Oregon, administered by the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department.

This Lane County, Oregon state location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Karahisar is a neighbourhood in the municipality and district of Nallıhan, Ankara Province, Turkey.[1] Its population is 64 (2022).[2]

This geographical article about a location in Nallıhan, Turkey is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Joseph Charles Jones (August 12, 1926 – November 27, 2005)[1] was an American R&B singer, songwriter and arranger, who was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, United States.[2] Jones is also generally credited with discovering the Dixie Cups. He also worked with B.B. King.[3] As a singer, Jones had his biggest hit in the form of the Top Five 1960 R&B hit "You Talk Too Much", which also reached No. 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Jones served in the U.S. Navy, where he played piano in a band, before studying music at the Juilliard Conservatory of Music.  He formed a band, Joe Jones and his Atomic Rebops, in the late 1940s; band members played on Roy Brown's 1947 hit "Good Rocking Tonight".[4] He was expelled from the New Orleans local chapter of the American Federation of Musicians for attempting to set up a rival organization but was later reinstated.[4]
Jones became a valet, then pianist and arranger for B.B. King.[2] He recorded his first solo single, "Adam Bit the Apple", for Capitol Records in 1954.[2] He also discovered Shirley and Lee, with whom he worked as their pianist,[2] and whose recording of "Let the Good Times Roll" became a hit in 1956.[4] In 1960, a re-recording of a song he had first recorded in 1958 for Roulette Records,[4] "You Talk Too Much," became a national success,[5] but his subsequent releases were less successful.[6]
Jones claimed to have composed many songs, including the song "Iko Iko."  Although his assertions were originally successful, a federal jury and then Court of Appeals ruled that Jones did not write "Iko Iko," that his claims were fraudulent, and that the true writers were the band he managed, the Dixie Cups (the true original recording of this song had been released as Checker 787 by New Orleans singer and pianist Sugar Boy Crawford and his Cane Cutters in late 1953).  The band hired music attorney Oren Warshavsky, who had previously won a case demonstrating that Jones falsely professed ownership of another Mardi Gras classic song, "It Ain't My Fault."  Jones also failed in his bid to declare title (though not as an author) to yet another Mardi Gras classic song, "Carnival Time."  He also recorded the original "California Sun" on Roulette Records in 1961, which was made a hit by the Rivieras in 1963.[7]
He later moved into music publishing,[4] and worked tirelessly for the rights of fellow R&B acts.[6] In 1973, Jones set up a company in Los Angeles, California, making advertising jingles.
In 2021, the Dixie Cups' Rosa Lee Hawkins revealed that she had been sexually abused by Jones, but has not let the painful memory sour her love of singing with The Dixie Cups. "We love what we do and that's coming from our heart. When we walk onstage to perform, we leave him behind. We leave his memory behind. The only time we talk about him is if somebody calls and says they want to do an interview. We know Joe is a so-and-so, but we have to realize it was him that, as they say, discovered us on that talent show, so that's all he deserves. He stole from us. We got one royalty check. I think it was $423 apiece."[8]
He died in 2005 from complications from quadruple bypass surgery.[3]
This is a list of the French Singles & Airplay Chart Reviews number-ones of 1975.[1]
Annie Nicolette Zadoks-Josephus Jitta (December 1904 – 31 May 2000) was a Dutch numismatist and archaeologist.
Annie Nicolette Josephus Jitta was born in Amsterdam in 1904. Her Jewish family originated in Bamberg in Bavaria, but moved to Amsterdam in 1812, where her ancestor Nathan Joseph adopted the surname Jitta in response to Louis Bonaparte's edict that all inhabitants of the Low Countries should be registered with a family name.[1] She attended schools in Amsterdam (Meisjeslyceum), Utrecht and The Hague, before taking an art history degree at the University of Leiden. She gained her PhD in 1932 under the supervision of Professor G. A. S. Snijder.[2] It formed the basis for her book Ancestral portraiture in Rome and the art of the last century of the Republic.
After taking her first degree exams, Josephus Jitta married Amsterdam-born Jewish lawyer Carel Zadoks. Despite his membership of the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands, he died in the Amersfoort concentration camp in 1942.[1][3][4] Their son Jan Carel spent the war years in Friesland, while Zadoks-Josephus Jitta herself worked at the Colonial Institute of Amsterdam.[3] Her unusual name inspired Dutch journalist Theo Toebosch to research the Josephus Jitta family after seeing it on the cover of her book Antieke cultuur in beeld as a schoolboy many years earlier.[1] Whilst taking his degree in classical languages and archaeology in Amsterdam, he remembers seeing Zadoks-Josephus Jitta walking around on campus, invariably accompanied by her dog.[1]  His book about the family, Uitverkoren Zondebokken (Selected Scapegoats), was published in 2010.[5]
From 1 May 1948 until 1 January 1963, Zadoks-Josephus Jitta worked as part-time conservator of ancient coins and cut gems at the Koninklijk Penningkabinet, then located in The Hague. She then became a lecturer in classical archaeology at the University of Groningen. Prior to this appointment she had been lector in archaeology for many years, following the retirement of archaeologist G. van Hoorn in 1951 and the departure of his replacement G. H. Beyen soon after. Her initial appointment as a lecturer was for a fixed term of five years, in view of her background as an archaeologist and art historian rather than the more traditional foundation of classical philology. She published ten books and more than two hundred articles, and is credited with changing the face of classical archaeology in the Netherlands.[2][6] She is also credited with stimulating the still nascent discipline of formal numismatic study in the Netherlands, particularly the work of Wim van Es.[7] Her work inspired the publication of a Festschrift on the occasion of her 70th birthday, with a foreword and praise of her work by Elizabeth Visser (1908–1987), the first female professor of ancient history in the Netherlands.[3]
Holland is a town in Hampden County, Massachusetts, United States. The population was 2,603 at the 2020 census.[1] It is part of the Springfield, Massachusetts Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The area around the town center comprises the census-designated place of Holland.
In 1730, the area that would become the town of Holland was settled by Joseph Blodgett, whose descendants still live in the town today. The town was named after Lord Holland, an English statesman who lobbied for independence for the American colonies. The town was incorporated on July 5, 1783. It separated from the town of Wales, which had in turn separated from Brimfield a few years earlier, in 1775. Holland separated from Wales because the town center of Wales was up through a mountain which made it hard to get through.
Throughout the years, Holland has remained an example of the charm and beauty of the traditional New England village. At different times, it has sustained industries such as farming, the manufacturing of cloth, and brickmaking. Holland is now known most for its recreational opportunities. There are extensive recreational facilities at the Hamilton Reservoir, which is stocked with trout each year by the state of Massachusetts. There is also a park and a swimming area at the picturesque Lake Siog.
The 200-year-old town hall was destroyed in a fire in December 1995. The new town hall was dedicated on July 11, 1998, by Congressman Richard Neal of Springfield, whose congressional district includes Holland.
Holland is located in the southeast corner of Hampden County in western Massachusetts. It is drained by the Quinebaug River and contains the Hamilton Reservoir, one of the largest reservoirs in southern New England. The town is nestled amongst two hill ranges, where elevations reach up to greater than 1,100 feet (340 m), for example on Rattlesnake Mountain in the northwest part of town.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 13.1 square miles (33.8 km2), of which 12.3 square miles (31.8 km2) are land and 0.77 square miles (2.0 km2), or 5.88%, are water.[2] Holland is bounded on the east by Sturbridge in Worcester County, on the south by Union, Connecticut, on the west by Wales, and on the north by Brimfield. Holland is 32 miles (51 km) by road east of Springfield, 26 miles (42 km) southwest of Worcester, and 40 miles (64 km) northeast of Hartford, Connecticut. Interstate 84 touches the southeast corner of Holland at the Massachusetts–Connecticut border; the closest access is from Exit 74 in Union, Connecticut.
At the 2010 census, there were 2,481 people, 994 households and 697 families residing in the town. There were 1,365 housing units in the town. The racial makeup of the town was 96.9% White, 0.6% Black or African American, 0.4% Native American, 0.4% Asian, 0.4% some other race, and 1.2% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.3% of the population.[14]
Of the 994 households, 31.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 56.3% were headed by married couples living together, 8.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.9% were non-families. 22.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 6.6% were someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.50, and the average family size was 2.90.[14]
21.2% of the population were under the age of 18, 6.9% were from 18 to 24, 25.6% were from 25 to 44, 35.3% were from 45 to 64, and 11.0% were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42.6 years. For every 100 females, there were 107.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 105.7 males.[14]
For the period 2011-15, the estimated median household income was $75,000, and the median family income was $85,952. Male full-time workers had a median income of $60,915 and females $43,922. The per capita income was $34,188. About 3.2% of families and 7.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 3.9% of those under age 18 and 2.9% of those age 65 or over.[15]
Holland Elementary School, serving grades Pre-K–6, has its own school committee, part of School Union 61. Holland students attend Tantasqua Regional Junior High School (grades 7–8) and Tantasqua Regional High School in Sturbridge. Union 61 and the Tantasqua district share administrators, including the superintendent, and both include Brimfield, Brookfield, Holland, Sturbridge and Wales.
Iolaus mimosae, the mimosa sapphire, is a butterfly of the family Lycaenidae. It is found in southern Africa. The habitat consists of Karoo and savanna.
The wingspan is 26–31 mm for males and 30–32 mm for females. Adults are on wing from September to March with a peak from October to November. There are one or more generations per year.[2]
The larvae feed on Actinanthella wyliei, Agelanthus natalitius, Moquinella rubra, Oncocalyx fischeri, Plicosepalus curviflorus, Plicosepalus kalachariensis and Tapinanthus dichrous.[3]

This Theclinae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Jai Hindley (born 5 May 1996) is an Australian professional cyclist who rides for UCI WorldTeam Bora–Hansgrohe.[5] He has been successful in the Giro d'Italia, finishing first overall in 2022 and second in 2020.
After joining the team for the 2018 season,[6] Hindley made his debut for Team Sunweb at the 2018 Volta ao Algarve. In August 2018, he was named in the startlist for the Vuelta a España.[7] In May 2019, he was named in the startlist for the 2019 Giro d'Italia.[8]
Hindley started the 2020 season well by winning two stages and the general classification in the Herald Sun Tour in February.[9] He started the Giro d'Italia in October. He moved up to third place on the general classification after finishing third on Stage 15.[10] He won stage 18 which was considered the "Queen stage" crossing the Stelvio Pass. He moved up to second place overall after the stage and also took the lead in the young riders classification.[11] He finished second to Tao Geoghegan Hart on the mountainous stage 20 to move into the overall lead with the same time as Geoghegan Hart.[12] The final stage of the Giro was a 15.7 kilometre time trial. Hindley finished with a time 39 seconds slower than Geoghegan Hart, which meant Hindley finished the Giro in second place overall.[13]
Hindley withdrew from the 2021 Giro d'Italia prior to the start of stage 14.[14] At the time he was in 25th place more than 17 minutes off the lead.[15]
Hindley moved to the Bora–Hansgrohe team for the 2022 season.[16] Early in the season he managed a top 5 finish in the 2022 Tirreno–Adriatico. Two months later he won his first Grand Tour, the Giro d'Italia.[17] Hindley rode strongly during the first two weeks of the race and won stage 9, a high mountain stage. For the majority of the third week he stood in 2nd place, just a few seconds behind Richard Carapaz. On the penultimate mountain stage he was able to drop all of the GC contenders including Carapaz and ride himself into the lead with a comfortable margin going into the final ITT. For the second time in his career he rode the final ITT of the Giro d'Italia while wearing the Maglia Rosa, but this time he seized the moment and won the race. He is the first Australian to win the Giro and just the second Australian to win a grand tour, following Cadel Evans who won the Tour de France.
On 5 July 2023, Hindley won Stage 5 of the Tour de France by 32 seconds. His lead at the finish line put him in first place in the General Classification earning him the Yellow Jersey for the start of Stage 6.[18]
This is a list of members of the Tasmanian House of Assembly between the 30 April 1909 election and the 30 April 1912 election.
A redistribution in 1907 resulted in the abolition of all of the single-member seats and the adoption of the five federal electorates which had been created for Tasmania, and used the Hare-Clark proportional representation system to elect six members to each of the seats. The 1909 election was the point at which these changes took effect.
One major result was the formation of parties—prior to 1909, members other than those pledged to the Labor Party had adopted loose and flexible affiliations, generally being known as "Ministerialist", "Oppositionist/Liberal" or "Independent". A coalition of former Ministerialists, Independents and Liberals formed the Anti-Socialist Party (which became the Liberal Party of Tasmania in 1912), while another group of Oppositionists formed the Liberal Democrat Party.
The second major result was the product of the election itself—the near-complete destruction of the former Liberal grouping which had originally formed around Sir Edward Braddon and Andrew Inglis Clark, and the considerable rise in the fortunes of the Labor Party. They gained 12 seats in the new Assembly, and for the first time in Tasmania's history, held government for a week in October 1909 under Premier John Earle.
Wendell Jermaine Sailor (born 16 July 1974) is an Australian former professional rugby footballer who represented his country in both rugby league and rugby union – a dual code international.
In rugby league Sailor was a member of the successful Brisbane Broncos team of the 1990s, with whom he won Premierships in 1993, 1997, 1998 and 2000. A wing, his large frame and powerful running made him a formidable opponent and prolific try-scorer. He represented Queensland in State of Origin and played for Australia (the Kangaroos) 16 times, including winning the 2000 Rugby League World Cup, where he was the top try-scorer and player of the tournament. He also played 3 times for the Super League Australia side.
In 2001, he moved to the Queensland Reds in rugby union, and later to the New South Wales Waratahs after the 2005 Super 12 season. He made his debut for Australia (the Wallabies) in 2003 and won 37 caps, including at the 2003 Rugby World Cup, where Australia lost in the final. In 2006 he failed a drugs test and received a two-year suspension from all forms of rugby. His contract with the ARU was terminated, ending his rugby union career.[3]
He returned to rugby league in May 2008 with NRL club the St George Illawarra Dragons after his ban expired,[4] playing for two seasons (the second of which was under his old Brisbane coach, Wayne Bennett), before retiring.
Since retiring, Sailor has worked in television presenting and has appeared in reality TV shows.
Sailor was born in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. He is South Sea Islander specifically descendent  from the Solomon Islands and West Indies descent.[5] Sailor's son Tristan also plays in the NRL.
Sailor grew up with his adoptive parents in Sarina, Queensland. He never knew his father and knew nothing of him apart from his West Indian heritage. His adoptive father is Torres Strait Islander.[6]
In his inaugural year for the Brisbane Broncos, Sailor played in a handful of games, scoring three tries in his first season,[7] though Sailor had limited involvement that year, the club won the premiership, defeating the St. George Dragons 14–6. After his impressive debut season, he won the Rookie of the Year award at the Broncos club.[citation needed]
The following season Sailor took part in more games, scoring 14 tries.[7] Such a rapid improvement over the course of two seasons saw Sailor become a regular in the Broncos ranks. He quickly became a home crowd favourite in Brisbane because of his speed and power and would soon become a household name in the rugby league world. During the 1994 NSWRL season, Sailor played on the wing for the defending premiers Brisbane when they hosted British champions Wigan for the 1994 World Club Challenge. At the end of the 1994 season he was selected for the 1994 Kangaroo Tour of Europe. He played in the opening fixture against a Cumbrian side where he scored two tries. He then started off the bench in a warm up match against Leeds, before earning a starting wing spot in the next match against Wigan and then playing off the bench again against Castleford. Sailor was again promoted to a starting wing position for the match against Halifax, scoring two tries. He then earned his first Test cap against Great Britain, as a starting wing in their loss at Wembley Stadium in late October.[8]
At the outbreak of the Super League war in 1995, Sailor along with the rest of his Broncos teammates and players of several other clubs, was aligned with Super League and so ineligible for selection in the 1995 State of Origin series or the end of season 1995 Rugby League World Cup. The following year, when all players were again allowed to be selected for representative football, Sailor's debut for the Queensland Maroons came in Game I of the 1996 State of Origin series. In Game II he played at fullback.
Following the 1997 defection Super League and all its clubs, Wendell had a stellar year in the rebel competition. He was the top try-scorer for the Broncos and helped them win Super League's expanded 1997 World Club Championship tournament and then the premiership, defeating the Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks 26–8 in the grand final. In the 1997 post season, Sailor was selected to play for Australia on the wing in all three matches of the Super League Test series against Great Britain.
After the Super League war ended, the Broncos won the inaugural competition of the National Rugby League, defeating the Canterbury Bulldogs 38–12 in the 1998 NRL grand final, in which Sailor scored a try. He then spent the Australian summer in England, playing rugby union for Leeds Tykes and scoring 15 tries in 13 games. Sailor also appeared in two of the Leeds Rhinos trial games, including the 'Festive Challenge' on Boxing Day in 1998. Playing Halifax, he had had a torrid time until the closing stages of the game when he inspired Leeds to grab a draw.[9] England's Wigan club had tried to sign Sailor for a large amount, but he decided to stay with the Broncos.[10]
In 1999 Sailor put in a man-of-the-match performance in the deciding match of the 1999 State of Origin series which saw Queensland retain the shield. At the end of the year he scored the match-winning try against New Zealand to clench the 1999 Tri-nations title for Australia.[11] The following year Sailor was again the Broncos' top try-scorer (along with Lote Tuqiri). At the conclusion of the 1999 season, while on and end of season trip in Darwin, Sailor made a pact with his long time friend Kevin Walters to win the 2000 NRL Grand Final.[12] He played for the Broncos on the wing and scored a try in their 2000 NRL grand final win over the Sydney Roosters, gaining himself another premiership ring. He was named the 2000 Brisbane Broncos season's Player of the Year and Best Back. In addition he received the Australian Sports Medal for his contribution to Australia's international standing in the sport of rugby league.
More success followed for Sailor as he traveled to Europe to compete in the 2000 Rugby League World Cup for Australia. He finished as the tournament's top try-scorer as well as boasting two tries in the victory over the Kiwis in the final. He was named best player of the tournament. Following the victory, Kangaroo coach Chris Anderson stated that "he's up there with Eric Grothe among the best of all time".[13]
Following the World Cup, many speculated that Sailor, who was off contract with the Broncos after the 2001 NRL season, would sign for a club in the Super League competition, as many Australian rugby league stars do. Shortly before travelling to England with Brisbane for the 2001 World Club Challenge, Sailor declared he was "leaning towards" switching codes following advice from rugby union convert and former Broncos teammate Peter Ryan.[14] Talks also apparently began with leading English Super League clubs Wigan, Leeds and Bradford.[9] Having won the 2000 NRL Premiership, the Broncos traveled to England to play against 2000's Super League V Champions, St Helens R.F.C. for the 2001 World Club Challenge, with Sailor playing on the wing in Brisbane's loss. The Australian Rugby Union were able to put up the funds to lure Sailor to rugby union, making him the first incumbent Australian test rugby league player to change to the 15-man game after decades of the opposite trend.[15] Sailor ran 4,452 metres with the ball over the 2001 NRL season, more than any other player in the competition.[16]
Sailor is one of a handful of elite players to score over 100 tries for the club. He became the record co-holder of most tries in a Broncos match, with four.
During the 2007 season at the Broncos' 20-year anniversary celebration, the club announced a list of the 20 best players to play for them over the two decades since their inception in 1988 which included Sailor.[17]
On 7 February 2001, it was announced by the Australian Rugby Union that they had reached an agreement with Sailor regarding a switch to Rugby union. Sailor signed a letter of intent with the ARU in February as well as signing with the Queensland Reds. The deal, worth approximately $700,000 per year,[18] was formally completed in July, with Sailor set to leave League on the first day of November.[19] He scored his first try in the Super 12 in his seventh match, where he scored twice and narrowly missed out on a hat-trick.
Sailor made his Wallaby debut with former Queensland Maroons teammate and league convert Mat Rogers in a Test match against France in June 2002. Collectively at that point they became the 41st and 42nd Australian dual code internationals. Sailor then released his book, Crossing Over which details the troubles he had in changing codes and describes the differences between the two. The following season he thrived and showed that he had made some good adaptations to his new game.[20]
In 2003, Sailor was selected for the Wallabies to participate in that year's World Cup. He played in the opening match between Australia and Argentina, where he scored the first try of the tournament. Sailor played several games during the World Cup including the final.
Sailor came off contract with the Reds after the 2005 Super 12 season, the media speculated that he would either move to Japan or sign with new franchise Western Force.[citation needed] However, he signed with the New South Wales Waratahs to play in the 2006 season.[21] The Waratahs won the opening game of the 2006 season at Suncorp Stadium against Queensland.
On 13 May 2006, hours before the final pool match of the Super 14 competition, it was announced that Sailor was to be suspended indefinitely from representing either the NSW Waratahs or Australian Rugby Team after returning a positive drug test for cocaine. Sailor's manager confirmed in a statement it was a doping offence.[22]
After the Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority (ASADA) tests confirmed that Sailor's urine 'A' sample from the pre-match test had contained indicators of cocaine, Sailor chose to have the second half of his sample retested. The second test results were not published to the media within the timeframe expected, leading to speculation that Sailor's 'B' sample had proved inconclusive or been mishandled, thereby providing an opportunity for appeal.[23] Eventually the 'B' sample results were announced, and proved to be positive.
The ARU immediately imposed a provisional suspension.[24] When the matter was heard in the ARU Judicial Body, his legal team argued that he had not ingested cocaine within the 96 hours prior to the urine sample being taken. He further argued that he received no performance-enhancing benefits from cocaine, and that the clear scientific evidence is that cocaine is a short-acting stimulant that has effect for no more than two hours at most and that neither it nor its metabolites could have any performance enhancing benefit if taken more than 96 hours before a match.[25]
When quizzed by counsel for the ARU, Sailor admitted that during previous drug tests he had received anti-doping information cards which carry the warning that all elite athletes are responsible for any banned substance in their system. When asked whether he was aware that cocaine is a banned substance, he confirmed that he did. The ARU upheld that whether Sailor considered the substance performance-enhancing or not, Sailor was aware that cocaine was a banned substance at the time of ingestion, and refused to reduce or overturn the ban.[26]
On 23 July, Sailor penned a column in the Sunday Telegraph explaining his actions and apologising to his fans and family.
Since his exit from rugby union, several new streams of income have emerged for Sailor. He appeared on the television series, Dancing with the Stars.  In addition, he provided NRL commentary for Channel Nine.
Speaking to a Sydney radio station in March 2007, Wendell stated he did not intend to let his career end in drug shame and that a number of NRL clubs had approached him in talks for his services once his ban ended in April 2008.[27] He would not disclose which clubs had approached him. At the time, media speculation linked Sailor to the South Sydney Rabbitohs but in June 2007, it was announced that Sailor would be joining the St George Illawarra Dragons on a two-year incentive based contract when his ban expired in April 2008. Many former NRL players supported the move, believing that Sailor would have a positive impact on the young Dragons squad. On Monday, 12 May 2008, Sailor officially commenced his contract with the St. George Illawarra Dragons.[28]
Sailor returned to rugby league playing initially for the Shellharbour Marlins (Dragons feeder team) in the New South Wales Cup.[29] On 17 May, he scored two tries playing on the wing for Shellharbour at Ron Costello Oval. He played there for a further two weeks before moving up to the Dragons' NRL team. On 6 June, on the weekend preceding State of Origin game two, Sailor made his NRL comeback in a depleted St. George Illawarra lineup against his former club, the Brisbane Broncos.
Sailor played a few more games for the Dragons as well as the Burleigh Bears in the Queensland Cup whenever he did not make the St. George Illawarra NRL side.[30][31] He scored his first NRL try since he left the League in 2001 against his former team the Brisbane Broncos in round 23. He later scored a hat-trick in the Dragons' 40–14 victory over the Eels in round 25.
Sailor was named in the 70-man Indigenous Australia squad alongside fellow Dragon Jamie Soward for the 2008 Rugby League World Cup. The Celtic Crusaders and French Rugby Union were looking to sign him for 2009, despite him having one more year on his contract with the Dragons.[citation needed]
For the 2009 season Sailor was re-united with the coach whom he began his professional career and won three premierships with, Wayne Bennett who had left the Brisbane broncos to coach the St. George Illawarra Dragons. Sailor was an influential figure in the Dragons side as he helped his side finish first in the regular season to gain the Minor Premiership. Sailor was recognised for his efforts as one of four nominees for the Dally M Winger of the year.
Sailor's 16-year career in professional sport came to an end when he announced his retirement at a press conference on 12 November 2009 at the age of 35.[32] His final game for the Dragons was, fittingly, at Suncorp Stadium against his old side, the Broncos, in a match the Dragons lost 24–10. Coincidentally, his first game for the Dragons was also against the Broncos in a match won by the Dragons, but Sailor was injured in that match.
Sailor's final match was the 2010 All Stars game for the Indigenous team played at Skilled Park on the Gold Coast on 13 February 2010. He scored the opening try for the inaugural match and celebrated the try by picking up the corner post and played it like a didgeridoo with teammates dancing in the way of a corroboree.
Sailor was a contestant on Dancing with the Stars in 2006. In 2010, Sailor became a regular panelist on Channel Nine's The NRL Footy Show and was contestant on Australia's Greatest Athlete. He came last out of eight sporting competitors. In 2011, he became the co-host of Channel Seven's Australia's Greatest Athlete, alongside Mark Beretta, and was a panelist on Foxtel's NRL on FOX.[33] In 2011 Sailor participated in The Celebrity Apprentice Australia. In 2012, Sailor appeared Monday and Friday mornings on Channel Ten Breakfast to preview and review all the NRL action. On 11 June 2015, Sailor appeared on an episode of The NRL Footy Show, where he competed in an 'Iron Arm Challenge' to raise money for charity, against former NRL player Ben Ross. During the proceedings, an accident occurred and Ross broke his arm before being immediately rushed to hospital.[34][35]
In 2018, Sailor is to be sideline reporter on sports entertainment series Australian Spartan.[36][circular reference].
In 2019, Sailor appeared as 'the Rhino' in the first season of Network 10's The Masked Singer Australia.[37]
The 1979 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting was the fifth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. 39 countries attended the meeting. It was held in Lusaka, Zambia, between 1 August 1979 and 7 August 1979, and was hosted by that country's President, Kenneth Kaunda.
Issues discussed at the conference included the situation in Rhodesia, the armed conflicts in Indo-China, the global growth of the refugee problem, the situation in Cyprus and Southern Africa. Sir Shridath Ramphal was reappointed as Commonwealth Secretary-General during the meeting. The Lusaka Declaration of the Commonwealth on Racism and Racial Prejudice was issued at the end of the CHOGM, including a special declaration condemning apartheid.[1] [2]

This article about politics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Lindbergh is a hamlet in Northern Alberta, Canada within the County of St. Paul No. 19.[2] It is located approximately 17 kilometres (11 mi) east of Highway 41 and 77 kilometres (48 mi) northwest of Lloydminster. The first settlers of Lindbergh arrived some time in 1906, and by 1911 a ferry, school, and cemetery had been constructed in the area. When the CNR reached nearby Heinsburg in 1927, a post office was moved to Lindbergh from Riverview along with a store. In 1946 oil companies drilling near Lindbergh found salt and began the planning of a new salt plant which was completed in 1948.[3]
Lindbergh recorded a population of 50 in the 1991 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada.[1]
This Central Alberta location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
64409668332ENSG00000205138ENSMUSG00000074211A6NFY7Q3U276NM_001042631NM_001033140NP_001036096NP_001028312Succinate dehydrogenase complex assembly factor 1 (SDHAF1), also known as LYR motif-containing protein 8 (LYRM8), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SDHAF1, or LYRM8, gene. SDHAF1 is a chaperone protein involved in the assembly of the succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) complex (complex II). Mutations in this gene are associated with SDH-defective infantile leukoencephalopathy and mitochondrial complex II deficiency.[5][6][7]
SDHAF1 is located on the q arm of chromosome 19 in position 13.12 and has 1 exon.[5] The SDHAF1 gene produces a 12.8 kDa protein composed of 115 amino acids.[8][9] SDHAF1 is ubiquitously expressed and belongs to the complex I LYR family and SDHAF1 subfamily.[6] As such, SDHAF1 is one of at least eight proteins that has a LYR tripeptide motif, thought to be important for Fe-S metabolism.[7] SDHAF1 also contains an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence that does not get cleaved following import into the mitochondria. The encoded protein is fairly hydrophilic and does not contain a transmembrane domain.[10]
SDHAF1 is essential for the assembly of the succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) complex (complex II), an enzyme complex that is a component of both the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and the mitochondrial electron transport chain, and which couples the oxidation of succinate to fumarate with the reduction of ubiquinone (coenzyme Q) to ubiquinol.[6] The succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain is composed of 4 individual subunits. The protein encoded by the SDHAF1 gene resides in the mitochondria, and is essential for SDH assembly, but does not physically associate with the complex in vivo.[5] Specifically, SDHAF1 mediates and promotes the maturation of the SDHB subunit of the SDH catalytic dimer. The iron-sulfur (Fe-S) protein subunit SDHB is required for functional succinate dehydrogenase. By protecting SDHB from damaging oxidants, SDHAF1 plays a vital role in the assembly and stability of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH).[11][10][6] Alternatively, SDHAF1 may facilitate Fe-S cluster acquisition by SDHB by directly binding to the co-chaperone HSC20, which is an essential component of the Fe-S biogenesis machinery that facilitates transfer of the Fe-S prosthetic group from the main scaffold protein ISCU to recipient apo-proteins (i.e. SDHB),[7]
Variants of SDHAF1 have been associated with mitochondrial complex II deficiency and infantile leukoencephalopathy. Mitochondrial complex II deficiency is a disorder of the mitochondrial respiratory chain with heterogeneous clinical manifestations. Clinical features include psychomotor regression in infants, poor growth with lack of speech development, severe spastic quadriplegia, dystonia, progressive leukoencephalopathy, muscle weakness, exercise intolerance, and cardiomyopathy. Some patients manifest Leigh syndrome or Kearns-Sayre syndrome. Missense mutations c.164 G > C, p.Arg55Pro and c.170 G > A, p.Gly57Glu, homozygous transversion 169G-C, p. Gly57-Arg, homozygous non sense mutation c.103G>T (p.Glu35X), and homozygous nonsense mutation c.22C > T, p.Gln8X have been associated with mitochondrial complex II deficiency due to SDHAF1 disfunction.[6][10][12][7]
SDHAF1 has 27 protein-protein interactions with 15 of them being co-complex interactions. HSCB, SDHB, ccdc136, KRT27, CIDEB, HSPA9, and ISCU have all been found to interact with SDHAF1.[13][7]
This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain.
The Grambling State Tigers men's basketball team represents Grambling State University in Grambling, Louisiana.  The school's team currently competes in the Southwestern Athletic Conference. Grambling State has never qualified for the NCAA Division I Tournament since transitioning from Division II. They currently play their home games at the Fredrick C. Hobdy Assembly Center.
The glory years of the Tigers were led by Fred Hobdy, who led the Tigers to eight SWAC regular season titles (five outright) during his coaching tenure. Hobdy went 572-288 as head coach from 1957 to 1986, which saw them play in NCAA Division II and the NAIA. They reached the Elite Eight of the Division II tournament in 1958 and won the NAIA title in 1961. Notable players during this time were Willis Reed, who was an NAIA All-American before becoming drafted by the New York Knicks; Reed was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1982. [2][3]
The Tigers advanced to the 1980 SWAC men's basketball tournament against Alcorn State (the regular season champion) for a chance to reach the NCAA Division I Tournament but lost 83–61. In 1986, Hobdy retired, later serving as athletic director for the program from 1989 to 1996 prior to his death in 1998 (years later, Grambling's new Assembly Center would be named after him).[4] The 1986-87 team won the regular season championship but were walloped 105-55 by Southern in the SWAC Final. They returned to the Final the following year and lost again to Southern 78–62. Grambling won a share of the regular season title for the 1988-89 season with Southern and Texas Southern after each had 10-4 records, but Grambling lost in the Semifinals to Texas Southern, who then lost to Southern. The Tigers, with a record of 8–10 in SWAC play and seeded 6th, pulled off two shocking upsets (of three-seeded Mississippi Valley State and two-seeded Jackson State) to advance to the final round of the SWAC men's basketball tournament for the fourth time in program history in 2011 but lost to fourth-seeded Alabama State. 
The 2012–13 team became the eighth NCAA Division I team to finish a season winless. They are one of only two teams of the SWAC to have never qualified for the NCAA Division I Tournament along with one of three SWAC teams to have never won the SWAC Tournament. The 2022–23 Tigers team returned to the SWAC Tournament title game for the fifth time in school history only to lose against Texas Southern, 58–61, for the right to advance to the NCAA Tournament. They reached the 2024 SWAC tournament after winning the regular season title for the second straight year, and they will play Texas Southern once again.
The Tigers have appeared in one National Invitation Tournament (NIT). Their record is 0–1.
The Tigers have appeared in one CollegeInsider.com Postseason Tournament (CIT). Their record is 0–1.
The Tigers have appeared in two NCAA Division II Tournaments. Their combined record is 3–2.
The Tigers have appeared in seven NAIA Tournaments. Their combined record is 15–6 and were NAIA national champions in 1961.
Team Facelift was an American hip hop group based in New York City that signed with Duck Down Records.[2]
The group was founded in 2004 and consisted of its three MCs—Machine, the Fat Jew, Alden Fonda—and one producer, Tommy Mas. The three met at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, NY. The group's sound was described by the New York Post as a cross between Barbra Streisand and Wu-Tang Clan.[3]
The group first gained national attention when headlining MTV's 52/52 campaign, which featured artists in short interstitials during commercial breaks. Team Facelift was the only group to appear that was unsigned.[4][5]
We try to bridge the gap—we do [hip hop] music, but we want to bring it to the level where you could play it at a slumber party with 12-year-old girls. You could play it at the mall. You could play it in Belgium. It's for quiet Asians, a dentist on his day off, orphans, quadriplegic transvestites, gothic Puerto Ricans, middle-aged moms with short shorts and big T-shirts with polar bears on them, Dominican dads, people with two dads, angsty teenagers who hate their dads, bloods, crips, boys and girls.Team Facelift is known for its bizarre stage theatrics and antics, such as the use of pyrotechnics and live animals (particularly doves). The Fat Jew is famous for his on-stage nudity, often performing in nothing but a thong and construction boots.[citation needed]
The group's first album, Mixed Emotions, was released in December 2006 on its independent label, Facelift Records. The group's newest project, currently untitled, will be released in fall 2010 on Duck Down Records. In early May, it was announced that renowned house-music remixer, producer, and DJ Junior Sanchez will be executive producer of the album.[6] In late 2008 the group was featured on the single "Shake That Ass" on famed producer Armand Van Helden's New York: a Mix Odyssey 2 album.
It is a diverse sound. Of course we're known as rappers, and it's obvious that we are cut above pretty much any of our contemporaries when it comes to lyrics, so the people demand we come equipped with that straight-up hip hop. At the same time, we're also moving in the direction of house music, and not that cheeseball glam-electro sound, but more classic New York underground house sound. It is reminiscent of what you would hear while wilding out at the Tunnel in the mid ’90s when house music still had elements of hip hop. That's a look nobody is getting after these days, but we guarantee it's going to pop. The fans can expect wet shirts, us doing it big like Ricki Lake's thighs, arena rap, unlimited babes, exploding cars, warm gin, good hip hop music, and non-stop action.Executive producers for the popular show The Daily 10 on the E! Entertainment channel selected Team Facelift to become the New York bureau of that show, conducting man-on-the-street, public-opinion, and one-on-one interviews of the New York City entertainment scene, while adding [its] unique brand of color and humor to the segment.[6]
In fall 2009, Team Facelift and Red Bull North America partnered together for Band on the Run, a unique tour that consisted of surprise performances from Team Facelift at major Colleges and Universities in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the US.
In 2010 the group parted ways, citing "creative differences".
Joseph C. Pitt (born 1943) is an American Pragmatist, philosopher of science and technology who works at Virginia Tech in the Departments of Philosophy and Science and Technology in Society.[1] He is a past editor-in-chief of Techné: Research in Philosophy and Technology and the former editor of Perspectives on Science. He was founding director of the Center for Science Studies at Virginia Tech, which is now the Department of Science, Technology, and Society. He is a foundational figure in philosophy of technology and a past president of the Society for Philosophy and Technology.[2][circular reference]
Pitt did his undergraduate studies at William & Mary, where he was a member of a fraternity. He completed his graduate studies in Canada at Western Ontario.[citation needed]
Pitt is the author of:

This biography of an American philosopher is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This philosophy of science-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Famous, Rich and Beautiful is the second album by Canadian R&B band The Philosopher Kings, released in 1997.
The band's most successful album, Famous, Rich and Beautiful earned the group several Juno Award nominations: for Best R&B/Soul Recording of the Year in 1998, and for Pop Album of the Year and Single of the Year (for "Hurts to Love You") in 1999. The songs "I Am the Man", "You Don't Love Me (Like You Used to Do)" and "Cry", a cover of the Godley & Creme song, were also notable hit singles from the album. The album peaked at #62 on the RPM Canadian Albums Chart.[1] In 1998, the album was certified Platinum in Canada.[2]


This 1990s R&B/soul album–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The men's 4×200 metre freestyle relay competition of the swimming events at the 2011 World Aquatics Championships was held on July 29, 2011 with the heats and final.
Prior to the competition, the existing world and championship records were as follows.
16 nations participated in 3 heats.[1]
The final was held at 19:41.[2]
Nathaniel Charles Claiborne (February 15, 1822  – February 1, 1889) was an American lawyer, politician and businessman who held legislative offices in Virginia and later in Missouri. Although he generally aligned with the Democratic Party and attended several national conventions of that party, he also once unsuccessfully ran for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives as a member of the Know Nothing party.[1]
Claiborne was born in 1822 on his father's plantation in Franklin County, Virginia into what would later be called the First Families of Virginia. His mother was Elizabeth Archer Binford and through his father, Nathaniel H. Claiborne, he could trace his ancestry to William Claiborne who had emigrated from England to the Virginia Colony early in the 17th century, and whose exploits also affected the Maryland and Pennsylvania colonies. His name reflected his father's, as well as that of his uncle William Charles Cole Claiborne, a Tennessee congressman who would become a territorial and state governor of Louisiana, as well as a U.S. senator from that state. He had an elder brother, Ferdinand Leigh Claiborne, as well as younger brothers and several sisters. His attorney father, who owned slaves, had already begun a career which would include terms in both houses of the Virginia General Assembly as well as a dozen years in the U.S. House of Representatives. Claiborne received a private education suitable to his class and graduated from Washington College in 1837–1838.[1]
Following graduation, Claiborne traveled in the western United States and worked on steamboats to support himself. However, by 1846 he returned Franklin County, was admitted to the bar, and began a legal career.[1] A successful criminal attorney in Virginia and later in Missouri, Claiborne reportedly never lost a jury trial.[2]
Franklin County voters elected Claiborne as one of their representatives to the Virginia House of Delegates in 1848 and re-elected him once.[3] Earlier that year, he attended the Democratic National Convention. Claiborne served on the Committee for Courts of Justice in both terms. In his second term Claiborne also served on a special committee that formulated the state's response to the Wilmot Proviso (which would have restricted slavery in new territories) as well as presented swords or medals to Virginians who fought in the Mexican–American War. Claiborne also successfully advocated for an equestrian statue of George Washington to be erected on Capitol Square in Richmond. During the 1849–1850 session, although that committee generally opposed funding internal improvements, Claiborne occasionally supported them, and also considered Richmond citizens' desire to elect their city officers.[1]
In 1850, Claiborne polled the second highest among ten candidates seeking to represent the Southside delegate district made up of his home Franklin County, as well as nearby Patrick and Henry Counties in the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1850.[4] He served alongside William Martin and Archibald Stuart. During the convention, Claiborne supported internal improvements and declared that as long as the delegates brought a railroad line to Franklin County he would vote for almost any guarantee for basing representation on a mixed basis of property holding and population. Thus, near the convention's end he voted for the final compromise that gave western Virginians a majority in the House of Delegates but allowed eastern slaveholding interests to retain a majority in the Virginia Senate. However he left the convention on July 30, 1851 and so did not vote on the constitution's final approval.[1]
In 1852, Claiborne won election to become Franklin County's commonwealth Attorney (prosecutor), normally a four-year tern. However, after attending the 1852 Democratic National Convention as well as the state Democratic convention (during which he promised to support the Democratic candidate for governor), Claiborne agreed to run for Congress in 1855 as a member of the Know-Nothing Party against Thomas S. Bocock (who had held the seat since 1847). However, Bocock won by more than 1,700 votes of more than 10,000 cast. Bocock savaged Claiborne in debates and the Lynchburg Republican and other papers decried Claiborne as lacking political principles or as a traitor to the Democratic party.[1]
In early 1857, Claiborne relocated with his family to Kansas City, Missouri, where he again practiced law as well as opened a hotel. He won election to the Missouri House of Representatives from Jackson County, Missouri in 1860, and later in 1868 and 1871.[5][1] In 1860, Claiborne was part of the Missouri delegation at both sessions of the Democratic National Convention, and also attended the 1864 Democratic National Convention in Chicago as an alternate. Of court the Democratic candidates nominated at both those conventions lost the contest for the presidency to Abraham Lincoln. At the onset of the American Civil War, in 1861 Claiborne moved to St. Louis and became Secretary of the Missouri State Senate.[6][7][8]
During his career in Missouri, Claiborne was known as the "silver-tongued orator of the west", in great demand during Presidential campaigns although he reportedly declined several requests to run for that state's governor.[1]
On June 13, 1849, Claiborne married Mildred Kyle Morris (1829–1908) of Buckingham County. She survived him, as did their two daughters who reached adulthood: Virginia Claiborne Adams (1853–1920) and Nathalie Claiborne Green Buchanan (1858–1931). However, their son John Herbert Latrobe Claiborne (1850–1882), who attended the Virginia Military Institute and later joined his father's law practice, was killed by a train during his parents' lifetimes.
Nathaniel C. Claiborne died of uremia and acute bronchitis at his home in St. Louis County, Missouri in 1889, and was buried at Oak Hill cemetery in Kirkwood, Missouri.[8]
The  34th Virgin Islands Legislature was a meeting of the Legislature of the Virgin Islands. It convened in Charlotte Amalie on January 11, 2021, during the third year of Albert Bryan’s governorship and ended on January 9, 2023.
In the 2020 elections, the Democratic Party of the Virgin Islands retained their majority although reduced from the 33rd Legislature.[1]
Source:[5]
A number of steamships have carried the name Badenia, including:
Giulio Calì (26 March 1895 – 20 January 1967) was an Italian film actor. He appeared in more than 60 films between 1927 and 1966.
Born in Rome, Calì started his career on stage, being mainly active in Romanesco dialect theater and in avanspettacolo.[1] He made his film debut in 1927, in Umberto Paradisi's Un balilla del '48, but his career ultimately started after the Second World War, when he was cast in a good number of films of different genres and quality, even if usually playing very minor roles.[1] Calì is probably best known for his association with director Alberto Lattuada, who gave him his first significant roles, namely Smarazzacucco in The Mill on the Po (1949) and the sailor in The Overcoat (1952).[1] Other notable directors with whom Calì worked include Steno, Mario Monicelli, Alessandro Blasetti, Mario Mattoli, Luigi Zampa and Luigi Comencini.[1]
Sensory processing is the process that organizes and distinguishes sensation (sensory information) from one's own body and the environment, thus making it possible to use the body effectively within the environment. Specifically, it deals with how the brain processes multiple sensory modality inputs,[1][2] such as proprioception, vision, auditory system, tactile, olfactory, vestibular system, interoception, and taste into usable functional outputs.
It has been believed for some time that inputs from different sensory organs are processed in different areas in the brain.  The communication within and among these specialized areas of the brain is known as functional integration.[3][4][5] Newer research has shown that these different regions of the brain may not be solely responsible for only one sensory modality, but could use multiple inputs to perceive what the body senses about its environment. Multisensory integration is necessary for almost every activity that we perform because the combination of multiple sensory inputs is essential for us to comprehend our surroundings.
It has been believed for some time that inputs from different sensory organs are processed in different areas in the brain, relating to systems neuroscience. Using functional neuroimaging, it can be seen that sensory-specific cortices are activated by different inputs. For example, regions in the occipital cortex are tied to vision and those on the superior temporal gyrus are recipients of auditory inputs. There exist studies suggesting deeper multisensory convergences than those at the sensory-specific cortices, which were listed earlier. This convergence of multiple sensory modalities is known as multisensory integration.
Sensory processing deals with how the brain processes sensory input from multiple sensory modalities.  These include the five classic senses of vision (sight), audition (hearing), tactile stimulation (touch), olfaction (smell), and gustation (taste).  Other sensory modalities exist, for example the vestibular sense (balance and the sense of movement) and proprioception (the sense of knowing one's position in space) Along with Time (The sense of knowing where one is in time or activities).  It is important that the information of these different sensory modalities must be relatable.  The sensory inputs themselves are in different electrical signals, and in different contexts.[6] Through sensory processing, the brain can relate all sensory inputs into a coherent percept, upon which our interaction with the environment is ultimately based.
The different senses were always thought to be controlled by separate lobes of the brain,[7] called projection areas. The lobes of the brain are the classifications that divide the brain both anatomically and functionally.[8] These lobes are the Frontal lobe, responsible for conscious thought, Parietal lobe, responsible for visuospatial processing, the Occipital lobe, responsible for the sense of sight, and the temporal lobe, responsible for the senses of smell and sound.  From the earliest times of neurology, it has been thought that these lobes are solely responsible for their one sensory modality input.[9] However, newer research has shown that that may not entirely be the case.
Sometimes there can be a problem with the encoding of the sensory information.  This disorder is known as Sensory processing disorder (SPD).  This disorder can be further classified into three main types.[10]
There are several therapies used to treat SPD. Anna Jean Ayres claimed that a child needs a healthy "sensory diet," which is all of the activities that children engage in, that gives them the necessary sensory inputs that they need to get their brain into improving sensory processing.
In the 1930s, Wilder Penfield was conducting a very bizarre operation at the Montreal Neurological Institute.[11] Penfield "pioneered the incorporation of neurophysiological principles in the practice of neurosurgery.[4][12]  Penfield was interested in determining a solution to solve the epileptic seizure problems that his patients were having.   He used an electrode to stimulate different regions of the brain's cortex, and would ask his still conscious patient what he or she felt.  This process led to the publication of his book, The Cerebral Cortex of Man.  The "mapping" of the sensations his patients felt led Penfield to chart out the sensations that were triggered by stimulating different cortical regions.[13] Mrs. H. P. Cantlie was the artist Penfield hired to illustrate his findings.  The result was the conception of the first sensory Homunculus.
The Homonculus is a visual representation of the intensity of sensations derived from different parts of the body.  Wilder Penfield and his colleague Herbert Jasper developed the Montreal procedure using an electrode to stimulate different parts of the brain to determine which parts were the cause of the epilepsy.  This part could then be surgically removed or altered in order to regain optimal brain performance.  While performing these tests, they discovered that the functional maps of the sensory and motor cortices were similar in all patients.  Because of their novelty at the time, these Homonculi were hailed as the "E=mc² of Neuroscience".[11]
There are still no definitive answers to the questions regarding the relationship between functional and structural asymmetries in the brain.[14]  There are a number of asymmetries in the human brain including how language is processed mainly in the left hemisphere of the brain.  There have been some cases, however, in which individuals have comparable language skills to someone who uses his left hemisphere to process language, yet they mainly use their right or both hemispheres.  These cases pose the possibility that function may not follow structure in some cognitive tasks.[14]  Current research in the fields of sensory processing and multisensory integration is aiming to hopefully unlock the mysteries behind the concept of brain lateralization.
Research on sensory processing has much to offer towards understanding the function of the brain as a whole.  The primary task of multisensory integration is to figure out and sort out the vast quantities of sensory information in the body through multiple sensory modalities.  These modalities not only are not independent, but they are also quite complementary.  Where one sensory modality may give information on one part of a situation, another modality can pick up other necessary information.  Bringing this information together facilitates the better understanding of the physical world around us.
It may seem redundant that we are being provided with multiple sensory inputs about the same object, but that is not necessarily the case.  This so-called "redundant" information is in fact verification that what we are experiencing is in fact happening. Perceptions of the world are based on models that we build of the world.  Sensory information informs these models, but this information can also confuse the models.  Sensory illusions occur when these models do not match up.  For example, where our visual system may fool us in one case, our auditory system can bring us back to a ground reality.  This prevents sensory misrepresentations, because through the combination of multiple sensory modalities, the model that we create is much more robust and gives a better assessment of the situation.  Thinking about it logically, it is far easier to fool one sense than it is to simultaneously fool two or more senses.
One of the earliest sensations is the olfactory sensation.  Evolutionary, gustation and olfaction developed together.  This multisensory integration was necessary for early humans in order to ensure that they were receiving proper nutrition from their food, and also to make sure that they were not consuming poisonous materials.[citation needed]  There are several other sensory integrations that developed early on in the human evolutionary time line.  The integration between vision and audition was necessary for spatial mapping.  Integration between vision and tactile sensations developed along with our finer motor skills including better hand-eye coordination.  While humans developed into bipedal organisms, balance became exponentially more essential to survival.  The multisensory integration between visual inputs, vestibular (balance) inputs, and proprioception inputs played an important role in our development into upright walkers.
Perhaps one of the most studied sensory integrations is the relationship between vision and audition.[15] These two senses perceive the same objects in the world in different ways, and by combining the two, they help us understand this information better.[16] Vision dominates our perception of the world around us.  This is because visual spatial information is one of the most reliable sensory modalities.  Visual stimuli are recorded directly onto the retina, and there are few, if any, external distortions that provide incorrect information to the brain about the true location of an object.[17] Other spatial information is not as reliable as visual spatial information.  For example, consider auditory spatial input.  The location of an object can sometimes be determined solely on its sound, but the sensory input can easily be modified or altered, thus giving a less reliable spatial representation of the object.[18] Auditory information therefore is not spatially represented unlike visual stimuli.  But once one has the spatial mapping from the visual information, multisensory integration helps bring the information from both the visual and auditory stimuli together to make a more robust mapping.
There have been studies done that show that a dynamic neural mechanism exists for matching the auditory and visual inputs from an event that stimulates multiple senses.[19] One example of this that has been observed is how the brain compensates for target distance.  When you are speaking with someone or watching something happen, auditory and visual signals are not being processed concurrently, but they are perceived as being simultaneous.[20] This kind of multisensory integration can lead to slight misperceptions in the visual-auditory system in the form of the ventriloquism effect.[21] An example of the ventriloquism effect is when a person on the television appears to have his voice coming from his mouth, rather than the television's speakers.  This occurs because of a pre-existing spatial representation within the brain which is programmed to think that voices come from another human's mouth.  This then makes it so the visual response to the audio input is spatially misrepresented, and therefore misaligned.
Hand eye coordination is one example of sensory integration.  In this case, we require a tight integration of what we visually perceive about an object, and what we tactilely perceive about that same object.  If these two senses were not combined within the brain, then one would have less ability to manipulate an object.  Eye–hand coordination is the tactile sensation in the context of the visual system.  The visual system is very static, in that it does not move around much, but the hands and other parts used in tactile sensory collection can freely move around.  This movement of the hands must be included in the mapping of both the tactile and visual sensations, otherwise one would not be able to comprehend where they were moving their hands, and what they were touching and looking at.  An example of this happening is looking at an infant.  The infant picks up objects and puts them in his mouth, or touches them to his feet or face.  All of these actions are culminating to the formation of spatial maps in the brain and the realization that "Hey, that thing that's moving this object is actually a part of me."  Seeing the same thing that they are feeling is a major step in the mapping that is required for infants to begin to realize that they can move their arms and interact with an object.  This is the earliest and most explicit way of experiencing sensory integration.
In the future, research on sensory integration will be used to better understand how different sensory modalities are incorporated within the brain to help us perform even the simplest of tasks.  For example, we do not currently have the understanding needed to comprehend how neural circuits transform sensory cues into changes in motor activities.  More research done on the sensorimotor system can help understand how these movements are controlled.[22] This understanding can potentially be used to learn more about how to make better prosthetics, and eventually help patients who have lost the use of a limb.  Also, by learning more about how different sensory inputs can combine can have profound effects on new engineering approaches using robotics.  The robot's sensory devices may take in inputs of different modalities, but if we understand multisensory integration better, we might be able to program these robots to convey these data into a useful output to better serve our purposes.
Sciences Po Toulouse (French pronunciation: [sjɑ̃s po tuluz]), or the Institut d'études politiques de Toulouse is one of the nine Institutes of Political Studies of France. Based in the center of Toulouse, France, next to the Université Toulouse 1 Capitole, this highly selective political science grande école was founded by a Decree in 1948 under the name of Institut d'études politiques de l'université de Toulouse.[6] Since 2004 the courses have been 5 years long.
Four institutes of political studies (in Bordeaux, Lyon, Grenoble and Toulouse) were established in 1946 following an executive decree by General Charles de Gaulle. The institut d'études politiques de Toulouse is one of them as an autonomous body within Toulouse 1 University Capitole. Since 2008, the cooperation between the different institut d'études politiques has increased and its students can now leave their institute in order to apply nearly freely in another one, furthermore, the competitive written examination (for students selection) is co-organized with five other institutes, respectively in Aix-en-Provence, Lille, Lyon, Rennes and Strasbourg.
Sciences Po institutes are Grandes Écoles, a French institution of higher education that is separate from, but parallel and connected to the main framework of the French public university system. Similar to the Ivy League in the United States, Oxbridge in the UK, and C9 League in China, Grandes Écoles are elite academic institutions that admit students through an extremely competitive process.[7][8][9] Alums go on to occupy elite positions within government, administration, and corporate firms in France.[10][11]
The institute is modeled on the former École Libre des Sciences Politiques, and as such, Sciences Po uses an interdisciplinary approach to education that provides student generalists with the high level of grounding in skills that they need in History, Law, Economic Sciences, Sociology, Political science and International relations, enriched by specialization in years 4 and 5, after a 3rd year either on a professional placement in France or overseas or alternatively studying at a foreign university.
Although these institutes are more expensive than public universities in France, Grandes Écoles typically have much smaller class sizes and student bodies, and many of their programs are taught in English. International internships, study abroad opportunities, and close ties with government and the corporate world are a hallmark of the Grandes Écoles. Many of the top ranked schools in Europe are members of the Conférence des Grandes Écoles (CGE), as are the Sciences Po institutions.[12][13] Degrees from Sciences Po are accredited by the Conférence des Grandes Écoles[14] and awarded by the Ministry of National Education (France) (French: Le Ministère de L'éducation Nationale).[15]
Like the other institutes of political studies, it provides students with general training in political sciences, law, sociology, economics, general knowledge, and history. Since 2004, Courses have been 5 years long. it main diploma is equivalent to a master's degree. Its specialty is national security.
43°36′27″N 1°26′17″E﻿ / ﻿43.60750°N 1.43806°E﻿ / 43.60750; 1.43806
Proprioseiopsis hudsonianus is a species of mite in the family Phytoseiidae.[1]

This Phytoseiidae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The New Orleans Pelicans are a professional basketball team in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The team commenced play in 2002 after the NBA granted founder George Shinn an expansion franchise to play in New Orleans. The Pelicans' establishment was unusual compared to most modern expansion teams in that New Orleans' roster was not stocked through an expansion draft. Instead, Shinn transferred the entire basketball organization (including player contracts) of his former team, the Charlotte Hornets, to his new franchise.
For its first eleven seasons, the team used the Hornets nickname. It competed as part of the Central Division of the Eastern Conference for its first two seasons, and since 2004 has been a member of the Southwest Division of the Western Conference. Due to the devastation to New Orleans caused by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the team effectively executed a temporary relocation to Oklahoma City for the following two seasons, during which they were known as the New Orleans/Oklahoma City Hornets. Financial troubles eventually compelled Shinn to sell the franchise back to the league during the 2010–11 season.
The acquisition of the team's current name came along with the purchase of the franchise from the league by Tom Benson. Early on in the purchasing process, Benson made it clear that he intended to change the name to something more "local". Inspiration for the name change is given to Louisiana's state bird, the brown pelican. The Pelicans have been owned by Benson's widow Gayle Benson since her husband's death in 2018. In 18 seasons of play the New Orleans franchise has achieved an overall regular season record of 740–864 (.461) and qualified for the playoffs eight times.
New Orleans had been a founding member of the ABA with the New Orleans Buccaneers (1967–1970), but the lack of a dedicated arena and a poor performance record led the team to relocate to Memphis. The city acquired an NBA expansion franchise in June, 1974, but the New Orleans Jazz faced a number of the same logistical and financial woes, and relocated to Salt Lake City in 1979. In 1994, the Minnesota Timberwolves were suffering financially and an ownership group almost purchased the team and moved it to New Orleans. The Timberwolves would have played at the Louisiana Superdome until a new arena was constructed. Financial problems, however, led to the NBA blocking the move. New Orleans would attempt to chase the Vancouver Grizzlies before finally landing another team in 1987.
In 1987, the NBA awarded an expansion team to Charlotte named the Charlotte Hornets owned by George Shinn and a few other businessmen. While the Hornets continued to put a competitive team on the court, the team's attendance fell dramatically.  Many attributed this lapse in popularity to the owner George Shinn, who was slowly becoming despised by the people of the city.[1]  In 1997, a Charlotte woman claimed that Shinn had raped her, and the resulting trial severely tarnished his reputation in the city. The consensus was that while Charlotte was a basketball city, fans took out their anger at Shinn on the team.  Shinn had also become discontented with the Coliseum, which had been considered state-of-the-art when it opened but had since been considered obsolete due to a limited number of luxury boxes.  On March 26, 2001, both the Hornets and the Vancouver Grizzlies applied for relocation to Memphis, Tennessee,[2] which was eventually won by the Grizzlies.  Shinn then issued an ultimatum that unless the city built a new arena at no cost to him, the Hornets would leave town. The city initially refused, leading Shinn to consider moving the team to either Norfolk, Louisville, or St. Louis. Of the cities in the running, only St. Louis had an NBA-ready arena, the Savvis Center, already in place and was a larger media market than Charlotte at the time; also, it was the only one of the four to have previously had an NBA franchise — the St. Louis Hawks, who moved to Atlanta in 1968.
Finally, a new arena in Uptown, what would eventually become the Spectrum Center, was included in a non-binding referendum for a larger arts-related package, and Shinn withdrew his application to move the team.  Polls showed the referendum on its way to passage.  However, just days before the referendum, Mayor Pat McCrory vetoed a living wage ordinance.  The veto prompted many of the city's black ministers to oppose the referendum; they felt it was immoral for the city to build a new arena when city employees were not paid enough to make a living.[3]  After the failed referendum, city leaders devised a plan to build a new arena in a way that did not require voter support, but made it known that they would not even consider building it unless Shinn sold the team.  While even the NBA acknowledged that Shinn had alienated fans, league officials felt such a demand would anger other owners as it could set a precedent.[4]  The city council refused to remove the statement, leading the Hornets to request a move to New Orleans, returning the NBA to that city after the Jazz relocated to Salt Lake City in 1979.  Although New Orleans was a smaller television market, a deal was quickly made to play at the New Orleans Arena, next door to the Louisiana Superdome.  Before the Hornets were eliminated from the playoffs, the NBA approved the deal.  As part of a deal, as well as to avoid a Browns-like lawsuit, the NBA promised that Charlotte would get a new team, which became the Charlotte Bobcats two years later.
In a 2008 interview with the Charlotte Observer, Shinn, who has not returned to Charlotte since the Hornets moved, admitted that the "bad judgment I made in my life" played a role in the Hornets' departure.  He also said that if he had it to do all over again, he would not have withdrawn from the public after the sexual assault trial.  Shinn emphasized how he was making amends by committing to New Orleans saying, "I've made enough mistakes in my life.  I'm not going to make one here.  This city needs us here.  We're going to make this (New Orleans) thing work."[5]
The Hornets opened their inaugural season in New Orleans on October 30, 2002, against New Orleans' original NBA franchise, the Utah Jazz.  In the first regular season NBA game played in New Orleans in over 17 years,[6] the Hornets defeated the Jazz 100–75, and posthumously retired #7 of "Pistol" Pete Maravich during halftime.  Despite nagging injuries to the teams's starting point guard, Baron Davis, the Hornets finished the season with a 47–35 record and qualified for the 2003 playoffs.  They were defeated by Philadelphia four games to two in the first round.
Following the season, the team fired head coach Paul Silas and replaced him with Tim Floyd.  In the 2003 NBA draft, the Hornets selected David West, who would become a future All-Star with the franchise.  The Hornets began the 2003–04 season strong with a 17–7 start, but sputtered at the end and finished 41–41, narrowly missing home court advantage in the first round of the 2004 playoffs.  They met the Miami Heat in the first round three years after having swept them in the 2001 NBA Playoffs, but the Heat defeated the Hornets in seven games.
After the season, Floyd was fired and the team hired Byron Scott as their new head coach.  Due to the NBA realigning divisions for the season, the Hornets began playing in the tougher Southwest Division of the Western Conference, which had four playoff teams the previous season, and the team was not expected to compete for a playoff spot.  In a season marred by injury to the team's three all-stars (Baron Davis, Jamaal Magloire, and Jamal Mashburn) an 0–8 start became a 2–29 record.  As a result of the lack of success, the team's roster was reshaped, with older veterans like Baron Davis and Jamal Mashburn traded to start the rebuilding process.  The team finished the year with a franchise-worst record of 18–64 and their first losing season in franchise history
Due to the devastation brought by Hurricane Katrina upon the communities of southeastern Louisiana, the Hornets franchise temporarily relocated their operations to Oklahoma City in 2005–06 and 2006–07.  During this time, the franchise was known as the New Orleans/Oklahoma City Hornets.  In these two seasons, the vast majority of home games were played at the Ford Center in Oklahoma City, while a few remained at New Orleans Arena.  Their practice facility in Oklahoma City was the Sawyer Center[7] on the campus of Southern Nazarene University (SNU)[8] and the team held its 2006 training camp at their New Orleans practice facility, the Alario Center in Westwego, Louisiana.
With the fourth pick in the 2005 NBA draft, the Hornets picked future all-star point guard Chris Paul.  For the 2005–06 season, the team played 36 games in Oklahoma City, with one game taking place at the Lloyd Noble Center on the campus of the University of Oklahoma, three in New Orleans, and one at the Pete Maravich Assembly Center on the campus of Louisiana State University (LSU).  The intent had been to play five games in all at Baton Rouge, but the restoration progress made on New Orleans Arena made the return to New Orleans a better option.  They started off the 2005–06 NBA season better than expected, and the team briefly held the sixth seed in the Western playoff race. The team then lost 12 out of 13 games to drop out of playoff contention, while also setting an NBA record when they only scored 16 points in the second half of a game against the Los Angeles Clippers.  The Hornets finished 38–44 and tenth place in the Western Conference.  Despite the losing record, Chris Paul won the NBA Rookie of the Year Award in a landslide.
The Hornets made major roster changes after the 2005–06 season in hopes of advancing to the Western Conference postseason for the first time.  They traded J.R. Smith and P.J. Brown to the Chicago Bulls for Tyson Chandler, let Speedy Claxton sign with the Atlanta Hawks, but filled their backup point guard position with free agents Bobby Jackson and Jannero Pargo.  They also inked Peja Stojaković from the Indiana Pacers.  The Hornets opted to stay in Oklahoma City for the 2006–07 season, but promised to return to New Orleans full-time.  Although the New Orleans Arena was capable of hosting the team, it was felt that the recovery efforts in New Orleans were not far along enough for the area to support a full NBA schedule. During the 2006–07 season, the Hornets played 35 home games in Oklahoma City and six in New Orleans.  The team finished the regular season with a 39–43 record, one more win than the previous season, and missed the playoffs again.
The team's successful operation in Oklahoma City arguably contributed to the city being named as the new home for the Seattle SuperSonics franchise starting in the 2008–09 NBA season as the Oklahoma City Thunder.[citation needed]
The Hornets franchise returned to New Orleans full-time for the 2007–08 season with all 41 home games played in the New Orleans Arena.  League officials had stressed from the beginning the desire for the franchise to return to New Orleans once it proved feasible and that they would make a good-faith effort to assist with the recovery. To that end, the 2008 NBA All-Star Game and its accompanying festivities were awarded to New Orleans and a serious marketing campaign was commenced in February 2007. Subsequently, various corporate sponsorship agreements were signed (under the umbrella of the Crescent City Champions), with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Capital One, and Cox Communications among them. The Hornets made few organizational changes heading into the 2007–08 season, signing free agents Morris Peterson and Melvin Ely, while letting go of former first round draft pick Cedric Simmons. The club also extended the contract of reserve guard Jannero Pargo and selected Kansas forward Julian Wright with the 13th pick in the 2007 NBA draft.
Attendance at the New Orleans Arena, while tepid at first, picked up considerably in the months of March and April 2008 with the team registering sell-outs in 12 of its last 17 regular season home games, and the final 13 total games including playoffs. Healthier than previous seasons, the Hornets held a 29–12 record at the halfway mark. Having the best record in the Western Conference on February 3 meant that Byron Scott would coach the 2008 Western Conference All-Stars at home in the New Orleans Arena. Scott was joined by two of his players, as both Chris Paul and David West were selected as All-Star reserves. Chris Paul was nominated for NBA MVP 2008 and placed second in voting. On February 21, the Hornets made an in-season trade with the Houston Rockets acquiring swingman Bonzi Wells and backup point guard Mike James for veteran guard Bobby Jackson.
The Hornets completed the regular season with a record of 56–26, making the season their most successful ever. The Hornets also won their first division title, winning the Southwest Division ahead of the San Antonio Spurs. Having clinched the second overall seed for the Western Conference, the Hornets beat the Dallas Mavericks in the first round. The Hornets won the first two games against the third seed San Antonio Spurs in the Western Conference semi-finals, but eventually lost to the defending champion Spurs three games to four.
In August 2008, the Hornets unveiled a modified logo and new uniforms with the colors of Creole blue, purple, and Mardi Gras gold, and after six seasons, the pinstripes were reinstated on the uniforms. The script was changed as an allusion to the wrought iron architecture of New Orleans. An additional third logo was introduced, with the "NOLA" abbreviation and a trumpet.[9] The team also publicly announced the sale of over 10,000 season tickets for the 2008–09 season.
Having experienced the most successful season in franchise history, both in the regular season and the playoffs, the 2009 NBA season was viewed with great expectations for the Hornets franchise. Several pundits picked the Hornets to repeat as winners of the Southwest Division and as a potential Western Conference champion.[10] The core players from the previous season were all back for 2008–09. Swingman James Posey was signed as a free agent from the Boston Celtics in July, while reserve guard Jannero Pargo opted for the Russian Basketball Super League. In December, the Hornets solidified the point guard position by acquiring Antonio Daniels in a three-team deal, giving up seldom-used guard Mike James and a future second-round draft pick. On February 18, the team announced that starting center Tyson Chandler had been traded to the Oklahoma City Thunder for forwards Joe Smith and Chris Wilcox in what was generally perceived as a payroll-shedding move. However, within a day, the trade was rescinded due to concerns regarding Chandler's turf toe.[11] For the second year in a row the Hornets were represented with two players at the NBA All Star Game as Chris Paul was voted in by the fans as a starter, and David West was selected as a reserve by the NBA coaches.
The Hornets' 2008–09 season was uneven, with injuries to Tyson Chandler and Peja Stojaković hampering the team's efforts. The Hornets finished the season with a 49–33 record, fourth in the Southwest Division, and seventh in the Western Conference. Facing the Denver Nuggets in the first round of the 2009 NBA Playoffs, the Hornets lost both of the first two games decisively in Denver. They won the third game of the series at home, but then tied the record for worst loss in playoff history with a score of 121–63, which was also the worst defeat in any regular or postseason game for a home team.[12] The Hornets were subsequently eliminated from the 2009 NBA playoffs in game five.[13]
In the aftermath of the 2008–09 NBA season and the in-season attempt to trade starting center Tyson Chandler for expiring contracts, the New Orleans Hornets were widely perceived to be looking to trim the payroll. Indeed, at the start of the NBA free agency period on July 1, the Hornets had the highest payroll of all teams in the league, topping $77 million. When the luxury tax level was set on July 7, it left the Hornets in excess of $7 million in the tax zone.[14] On July 28, the Hornets traded for center Emeka Okafor from the Charlotte Bobcats for Tyson Chandler.[15] While the move allowed the Hornets to shed $1.3 million of the 2009–10 payroll, they also took on the remainder of Okafor's contract valued at just under $63 million for five years. On June 25, 2009, the Hornets drafted Darren Collison with the 21st pick of the 2009 NBA draft. The Hornets also traded two future second round picks to the Miami Heat for the 43rd pick Marcus Thornton. On August 12, 2009, the Hornets traded starter Rasual Butler to the Clippers for a 2016 second round draft pick, in another attempt to lower the payroll. Butler was slated to earn $3.9 million for the season, but due to the Hornets being in the tax zone, those savings were effectively doubled. Further, on September 9, the Hornets traded guard Antonio Daniels to the Minnesota Timberwolves for guard Bobby Brown and forward Darius Songaila.[16] The conscious effort to get below the luxury tax threshold continued during the season. First, backup center Hilton Armstrong was traded along with cash considerations to the Sacramento Kings for a conditional 2016 second round draft pick.[17] Shortly thereafter, starting shooting guard Devin Brown was traded to the Chicago Bulls for reserve center Aaron Gray and backup guard Bobby Brown was traded to the Los Angeles Clippers for a conditional 2nd round draft pick.[18] In total, these trades got the Hornets just below the luxury tax threshold.
On the court, head coach Byron Scott was fired on November 12, 2009, after a 3–6 start to the season. General manager Jeff Bower took over the head coaching duties for the remainder of the season. The Hornets overcame the bad start to the season and were as high as sixth in the Western Conference standings in late January. In the second to last game of January, Chris Paul was injured trying to save an errant pass going out of bounds and was out for most of the rest of the season. The few highlights came from rookies Darren Collison and Marcus Thornton; Collison achieved the longest stretch of games with at least 18 points and 9 assists (7 in a row in February) for a rookie since Oscar Robertson and both rookies made the all-rookie teams after the season, a first in franchise history.
The Hornets finished the season with a 37–45 record, finishing last in the Southwest Division. Jeff Bower resigned as head coach to concentrate on his front office duties, but was fired by the Hornets on July 13, 2010, ending a tenure of nearly 15 years within the organization. In between Bower's stepping down as head coach and his dismissal from the organization, Monty Williams was brought in as new head coach. The former assistant coach of the Portland Trail Blazers was, at 38 years old, the youngest head coach in the league.[19] To replace Bower as general manager, the Hornets hired Dell Demps of the San Antonio Spurs in late July.[20]
With a new head coach and a new general manager, entered the offseason with uncertainty. Minority owner Gary Chouest was attempting to buy out long-term owner George Shinn and become sole owner of the organization. All-star point guard Chris Paul had also expressed his desire to be on a winning team. The roster was then overhauled for the new coach and manager, while also trying to appease Paul.
At the 2010 NBA draft, former lottery pick Cole Aldrich and guard Morris Peterson were traded to the Oklahoma City Thunder for the 21st and 26th picks in the draft,[21] which were subsequently used on forwards Craig Brackins and Quincy Pondexter. On August 11, the Hornets traded rookie Darren Collison and James Posey to the Indiana Pacers for small forward Trevor Ariza from the Houston Rockets in a four-team trade. In a separate trade on the same day, another former lottery pick Julian Wright was traded to the Toronto Raptors for shooting guard Marco Belinelli.[22] On September 23, 2010, the Hornets sent rookie Craig Brackins and power forward Darius Songaila to the Philadelphia 76ers for guard Willie Green and center Jason Smith.[23] Finally, just before the start of the regular season on October 23, the Hornets acquired point guard Jerryd Bayless from the Portland Trail Blazers for a conditional first round draft pick.[24]
The overhaul of the roster lead to the team getting younger and more athletic and potentially while simultaneously cutting the relatively underperforming Peterson, Posey and Wright. The cost primarily was the loss of Collison and potentially the future first round draft pick. When the 2010–11 NBA season started, only three players (Paul, West and Stojakovic) were left from the team that won the Southwest Division two years prior. The team started the season with five straight wins, a team record for opening a season.  The team then extended the streak to eight straight wins.  The team also held their first ten opponents to below 100 points.  Later in the season, the team tied a club record with ten straight wins on January 26, 2011. The team qualified for the 2011 NBA Playoffs, where they lost to the Lakers four games to two.
Off-court in the 2010–11 season, the buyout by Chouest fell through in early December 2010[25] and because Shinn was not in a financial position to continue to run the team, the NBA purchased the team for an estimated $300 million while it looked for a local owner.[26] Larry Ellison, CEO of Oracle Corporation who previously tried to buy the Golden State Warriors, said he offered to purchase the team but was "slightly outbid" by the league.[27] On January 24, 2011, the state, city, and local businesses of New Orleans came together and raised enough money to buy enough tickets to block an escape clause that would have allowed the team to walk away from its lease at New Orleans Arena because of low attendance.[28]
Before the 2011–12 NBA season, the Hornets were considering trade offers for Chris Paul and he requested a trade to the New York Knicks. The Hornets looked at many teams, including the Boston Celtics and the Golden State Warriors as trade partners, but Paul had made it clear he wanted to be traded to New York or Los Angeles. A three-team trade involving the Los Angeles Lakers and the Houston Rockets was agreed upon, but commissioner David Stern vetoed the trade.[29] On December 14, 2011, the Hornets agreed to a deal with the Los Angeles Clippers that would send Paul to L.A. in exchange for Eric Gordon, Chris Kaman, Al-Farouq Aminu, and a first-round draft pick acquired by the Clippers from a trade with the Minnesota Timberwolves in 2004.
At the end of the 66-game lockout-shortened 2011–12 NBA season, the Hornets had the worst record in the West, 21–45.
On April 13, 2012, it was announced that Tom Benson, owner of the New Orleans Saints, had purchased the franchise from the NBA for $338 million.[30][31] In addition, Benson announced that he would change the team name to something that would better suit the region, fueling rumors that the Hornets name could one day return to Charlotte, where the Bobcats play.[32][33]  In June 2012, Benson appointed two senior Saints executives to supervise the Hornets as well:  Saints general manager Mickey Loomis became head of basketball operations, overseeing general manager Dell Demps, and Saints business operations head Dennis Lauscha took on the same role with the Hornets.[34]
The Hornets traded Emeka Okafor and Trevor Ariza to the Wizards for Rashard Lewis, whom they bought out, and a draft pick.
On May 30, 2012, the Hornets were awarded the first overall pick in the 2012 NBA draft and subsequently drafted Anthony Davis. They also drafted Austin Rivers with the 10th pick (acquired from the Clippers as part of the Chris Paul trade).
On July 11, 2012, Ryan Anderson, 2012's Most Improved Player and three-point field goals leader, was acquired in a sign-and-trade by the New Orleans Hornets, with the Orlando Magic, for Gustavo Ayón. New owner Tom Benson had indicated early in his ownership that he wished to change the team's name to something more local, even preferring that the Utah Jazz – founded in New Orleans in 1974 and played there until 1979, give up the "Jazz" name. But the Jazz indicated they had no interest in returning the name due to over 30 years of history associated with it.  Benson had also heavily favored the names "Brass" and "Krewe".
On December 4, 2012, Yahoo! Sports reported that the Hornets would change their name to the New Orleans Pelicans beginning with the 2013–14 season.[35][36] The team name is inspired by Louisiana's state bird, the brown pelican.[37] The name "Pelicans" can be traced back in New Orleans to the 1865 founding of the New Orleans Pelicans, an amateur baseball team. In 1887, the team became a professional franchise when it joined the minor league Southern League which operated off and on until 1899. In 1901, the Pelicans became a founding member of the minor league Southern Association which lasted until 1957.[38] In 1977, the Pelicans name briefly resurfaced for one season when the Triple-A minor league Tulsa Oilers moved to New Orleans before moving to Springfield, Illinois, upon completion of the 1977 season.
The Hornets organization unveiled the team's new logos and navy blue-gold-red color scheme in a press conference on January 24, 2013.[39][40] On April 18, 2013, after the end of the team's 2012–13 season, the team's name was officially changed to the Pelicans.[41]
On June 27, 2013, during the 2013 NBA draft, the Pelicans selected Nerlens Noel 6th overall, and traded him along with a 2014 protected first-round pick for All-Star point guard Jrue Holiday of the Philadelphia 76ers and the 42nd pick, Pierre Jackson.[42]
Following the New Orleans franchise's 2013 disestablishment of the "Hornets" name, on May 21, 2013, Charlotte Bobcats owner Michael Jordan announced the organization had submitted an application to change the name of his franchise to the Charlotte Hornets for the 2014–15 NBA season pending a majority vote for approval by the NBA Board of Governors at a meeting in Las Vegas, on July 18, 2013.[43] Then-NBA Deputy Commissioner and COO Adam Silver had previously pointed out the fact that the league owns the rights to the name Hornets and that could speed up the process.[44] The NBA unanimously approved the name change starting with 2014–15.[45] The Bobcats became the Charlotte Hornets on May 20, 2014.  In addition, the newly renamed Hornets acquired the records and history of the original Hornets from 1988 to 2002, while the Pelicans kept the remaining records from the 2002–03 season onward.[46]
Just before the start of the 2013–2014 season, the Pelicans announced they had broken the 2008–2009 team record for season tickets sold. Sales hit 12,000 season tickets for the first time in franchise history.[47]
For the second season under the name Pelicans, the team qualified for the playoffs with a 45–37 record as the number 8 seed in the Western Conference. They owned the tie-breaker over the Oklahoma City Thunder by winning the regular season head-to-head series 3–1, and they faced the Golden State Warriors in the first round; the Warriors swept the Pelicans in four games. After the season, the Pelicans fired coach Monty Williams despite qualifying for the playoffs.
On May 31, 2015, the Pelicans hired Alvin Gentry as the franchise's 6th head coach.[48]
On April 17, 2019, the Pelicans named David Griffin as the new executive vice president of basketball operations.[49] On May 19, 2019, the Pelicans named former Brooklyn Nets assistant general manager Trajan Langdon their newest general manager, replacing interim general manager Danny Ferry.[50]
On June 15, 2019, the Pelicans agreed to trade Davis to the Los Angeles Lakers. In return, the Lakers agreed to send Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart and three first-round picks, including the fourth overall pick in the 2019 NBA draft, to the Pelicans.[51] The Pelicans later agreed to trade draft rights of the fourth overall pick of the 2019 NBA draft to the Atlanta Hawks, receiving the draft rights to the eighth, 17th and 35th picks in the 2019 NBA draft.[52]
On June 20, 2019, the Pelicans selected Zion Williamson with the first overall pick.[53] The team also drafted Alen Smailagić and Jordan Bone, both of whom were immediately traded to the Golden State Warriors and Atlanta Hawks, respectively. The Pelicans then received Jaxson Hayes, Nickeil Alexander-Walker and Marcos Louzada Silva from Hawks. On July 1, the Pelicans announced that they signed Williamson to his rookie-scale contract.[54] However, the Pelicans began the 2019–20 season without Williamson as he had a knee surgery following an injury in the preseason.[55] He made his debut on January 22, 2020, scoring 22 points in 18 minutes of play.[56] On March 3, 2020, Williamson was named the NBA Rookie of the Month for the month of February. During the month, Williamson averaged 25.7 points, 6.2 rebounds, 2.6 assists, and 1.0 steal a game.[57]
Brandon Ingram had a breakout season. On December 30, 2019, Ingram was named the Western Conference Player of the Week for games played between December 23 to December 29. During the week, Ingram averaged 25.3 points, 7.3 rebounds, 4.5 assists, and 2.0 steals per game while shooting 49.3 percent from the field and 54.2 percent from three-point range. Ingram helped the Pelicans to a 4–0 week as a result.[58] On January 16, 2020, Ingram recorded a career-high by scoring 49 points in a 138–132 overtime win against the Utah Jazz. Ingram gave the Pelicans a one-point lead with a fadeaway jumper with 0.2 seconds remaining in regulation. This was before Rudy Gobert was fouled and subsequently sent the game to overtime with a free throw.[59] Because of his breakout season, Ingram became an NBA All-Star for the first time in his career.[60]
Wettersteinplatz is an U-Bahn station in Munich on the U1. The station is also served by routes  and  of the Munich tramway.[1]
48°06′29″N 11°34′33″E﻿ / ﻿48.10806°N 11.57583°E﻿ / 48.10806; 11.57583
This Munich U-Bahn-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Fiorenzo Aliverti (born 31 March 1957) is an Italian former professional racing cyclist.[1] He rode in one edition of the Tour de France, three editions of the Giro d'Italia, and one edition of the Vuelta a España.
This biographical article related to an Italian cycling person born in the 1950s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
This is a list of the characters in the Underdog series.
Underdog is an anthropomorphic dog, who is a superhero parody of Superman and similar heroes with secret identities. The premise was that "humble and lovable" Shoeshine Boy, a cartoon dog, was in truth the superhero Underdog. When villains threatened, Shoeshine Boy ducked into a telephone booth, where he transformed into the caped and costumed hero, destroying the booth in the process when his superpowers were activated. In the live-action film, he appeared as a beagle who became Jack Unger's pet. In 2008, he appeared in a Super Bowl advertisement for Coca-Cola.
Underdog is voiced by Wally Cox in the television cartoon. In the film adaptation, he is voiced by Jason Lee and portrayed onscreen by a lemon beagle named Leo sporting a red sweater and a blue cape.
Sweet Polly Purebred is a female anthropomorphic dog TV news reporter and Underdog's love interest; she serves as the damsel in distress of most episodes. When being pursued by an antagonist, Polly is apt to start singing, "Oh where, oh where has my Underdog gone? Oh where, oh where has he gone?",[1][2] in a whiny voice, hoping for the object of her affections to come and rescue her. Polly's face is slightly similar to that of Underdog's, with a large muzzle and nose, she wears her platinum blonde hair styled in a pageboy, and her wardrobe consists of a black skirt, white shirt, red sweater, and black high-heels. In a few episodes it is hinted that Polly shows her love for Underdog. For example, in the episode "March of the Monsters", she is caught by a robot and calls for Underdog. He then saves Polly, but after Underdog uses his supersonic hi-fi voice and breaks all the glass, the townspeople complain about his voice. However, Polly defends the hero and tells the people that they should thank him for saving everyone from the robots. She then goes to reward Underdog with a big kiss, but the hero backs away and flies off. Also, in the episode "The Vacuum Gun", when Polly is caught by Simon Bar Sinister's vacuum gun, she calls for Underdog and her song annoys Simon. Later in the episode, she retrieves Underdog's ring.
In the live-action film, Polly is a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel owned by a girl named Molly, a classmate of Underdog/Shoeshine's owner, Jack. She is based upon Superman's romantic interest Lois Lane.
In the 1976 Western Comics Underdog #7, it is revealed that Sweet Polly has a young nephew named Wilbur.
She was voiced by Norma MacMillan in the cartoon and voiced by Amy Adams in the live-action film.
Appearances: Movie
Dan Unger is Jack's father. He was once a police officer, but quit the force after his wife died and worked as a security guard at the scientific institute where Simon Bar Sinister hid out after hours. Using Underdog's stolen collar, Simon and Cad were able to determine where he lived and captured him in order to lure Jack and Underdog to them. After Simon Bar Sinister fed an antidote pill to Underdog and left to forcefully negotiate with the Mayor, Dan learned that Shoeshine was Underdog. After Underdog freed the Mayor, Dan was reinstated and promoted by the Mayor and helped Underdog arrest Simon while Underdog buried a bomb Cad placed on the roof. Dan was later seen placing Simon into solitary confinement where Cad was also held.
In the movie, he is portrayed by James Belushi.
Appearances: Weathering the Storm
General Brainley is in charge of the moon launch at Cape Canaveral. When he was about to send a pair of astronauts and Sweet Polly to the moon, Simon Bar Sinister and Cad Lackey hijacked the spaceship and held Sweet Polly prisoner so they could use the Weather Machine against Earth. When anything goes awry, he deems the problem an outrage.
He is voiced by Allen Swift.
Appearances: Movie
Jack Unger is Underdog's human companion. He is a teenager and Dan Unger's son. His mother has died some time ago. Although Dan is very understanding, Jack's relationship with him is not very smooth. When Dan brings him the dog Shoeshine which he found in the street, Jack at first does not want him. When the dog talks to him, he is understandably upset and wonders whether he is going crazy. However, soon he decides he wants to keep him.
After Shoeshine defends Molly (Jack's classmate and the teenage female owner of the female dog he fancies) against robbers, Jack convinces him to use his powers to fight more evil, arguing that one cannot always just do what one likes. They decide that for his superhero actions Shoeshine takes on the secret identity of "Underdog", using Dan's college sweater, which has a big U on it, as his hero attire.
Jack is played by Alex Neuberger.
Appearances: Fearo, From Hopeless to Helpless, The Gold Bricks, The Phoney Booths, RiffRaffville, The Vacuum Gun
O.J. Skweez is the owner of the TTV (Total Television) building and is Sweet Polly's employer.
He is voiced by Mort Marshall.
Appearances: The Bubbleheads
Professor Moby Von Ahab is one of the world's leading scientists who helped Sweet Polly investigate what was happening beneath the sea when the Bubblehead Empire planned to conquer the surface world. His name is a take-off on both Moby-Dick and Captain Ahab.
He is voiced by Allen Swift.
Appearances: A New Villain, Batty-Man 
Officer Flim Flanigan previously appeared frequently on the King Leonardo and His Short Subjects segment "The Hunter". He was included as the chief of police during later episodes.
Appearances: Simon Says, Go Snow, Zot, The Big Shrink, Weathering The Storm, The Phoney Booths, The Forget-Me-Net, Simon Says "No Thanksgiving", The Tickle Feather Machine, The Big Dipper, Simon Says "Be My Valentine", The Vacuum Gun, movie
Simon Bar Sinister is a mad scientist. He is the wickedest man in the world, precedes all his commands with “Simon Says,” and has an assistant named Cad Lackey. A "bend sinister", sometimes, inaccurately, called a "bar sinister", is a diagonal line in heraldry that can indicate that the bearer is a bastard by birth.[3] At the same time, "bar" means "son of" in Aramaic, the language of Jesus, who made an apostle of "Simon Bar-Jonah."  It is Simon Bar Sinister's ambition to rule the world, but, each time, Underdog defeated him.
He was voiced by Allen Swift, impersonating Lionel Barrymore, in the cartoon.[4] In the movie, he is portrayed by Peter Dinklage.
Appearances: Go Snow, The Big Shrink, Weathering The Storm, The Phoney Booths, The Forget-Me-Net, Simon Says "No Thanksgiving", The Tickle Feather Machine, The Big Dipper, Simon Says "Be My Valentine", The Vacuum Gun, movie
Cad Lackey was Simon's henchman, who, though generally dull-witted, was occasionally capable of pointing out flaws in his boss's plans. Contrary to the mad scientist stereotype, Simon actually paid good attention to Cad's suggestions in these episodes.
In the live-action film, he was portrayed as more intelligent and level-headed. He was Simon's partner and the security guard of a building where Simon hid out after hours.
He is voiced by Ben Stone impersonating Humphrey Bogart in the cartoon. In the movie, he is portrayed by Patrick Warburton.
Appearances: The Great Gold Robbery, Fearo, From Hopeless to Helpless, The Gold Bricks, Pain Strikes Underdog, Whistler's Father, RiffRaffville, Just In Case, The Vacuum Gun, movie
Riff Raff is an anthropomorphic wolf gangster. He leads an unnamed gang that often carry out various crime waves until they are stopped by Underdog. In "The Vacuum Gun," Riff Raff and his gang were among the criminals that were recruited by Simon Bar Sinister.
In the film, Riff Raff is portrayed as a Rottweiler. When he meets Shoeshine, he and his dog henchmen chase him around an alley in an attempt to eat him until he is found by Dan Unger, when they run away. They meet again with Polly (whom Riff Raff tries to flirt with) on the sidewalk. Around the end of the film, Shoeshine barks at Riff Raff enough to remove some of his fur and he and his henchmen run away again for the last time. In contrast to his role as a major villain on the series, Riff Raff is portrayed as more of a comic relief minor villain.
Riff Raff is voiced by Allen Swift impersonating George Raft in the cartoon.[5] In the film, Riff Raff was voiced by Brad Garrett.
In addition to some unnamed members, the following are members of Riff Raff's gang:
Appearances: Whistler's Father
Dinah Mite is one of the criminals Riff Raff summoned in the episode "Whistler's Father". She is the best bomb-tosser in the crime business.
Appearances: The Great Gold Robbery, Fearo, From Hopeless to Helpless, Pain Strikes Underdog, Whistler's Father, RiffRaffville, The Vacuum Gun
Mooch is the top gunman in Riff Raff's gang and is Riff Raff's right-hand man.
He is modeled after Walter Matthau and voiced by George S. Irving.
Appearances: Just in Case
Nails the Carpenter is one of the new members of Riff Raff's gang. He rebuilt the sunken ship of Captain Kidd as part of Riff Raff's ghost ship plot.
Appearances: Just In Case
Needles the Tailor is one of the new members of Riff Raff's gang. He sewed a sail as part of Riff Raff's ghost ship plot.
Appearances: Whistler's Father, Riffraffville, The Vacuum Gun
Sandy the Safecracker is the best at breaking banks. He just opens safes with his fingers.
Appearances: Just In Case
Smitty the Blacksmith is one of the new members of Riff Raff's gang. He hammered out an anchor as part of Riff Raff's ghost ship plot.
Voiced by George S. Irving.
Appearances: Whistler's Father, Riffraffville, The Vacuum Gun
Spinny Wheels is the best getaway car driver in the crime business.
Appearances: Just In Case
The Witch Doctor is one of the new members of Riff Raff's gang. He was the disguised prisoner who went with Riff Raff during the prison break. When asked by Nails, Needles, and Smitty why they should bring him along during the prison break and give him a share of the loot, Riff Raff kept telling them "Just In Case". When Sweet Polly Purebred ends up captured during her infiltration, Riff Raff reveals the disguised prisoner to be a Witch Doctor. When Underdog arrives, the Witch Doctor puts Underdog under a voodoo spell which was instantly broken by Underdog taking his Super Energy Pill.
Voiced by George S. Irving.
Appearances: Batty-Man, The Vacuum Gun
Batty-Man (voiced by Allen Swift) is a vampire villain who commands a massive army of giant bats and lives in Belfrey Castle.
In "Batty-Man", he and his batty army caused a crime wave nationwide, baffling everyone in the country. The crime wave was arranged to make Underdog powerless enough so Batty-Man could not be stopped from pulling the crime of the century. Soon, Underdog found out Batty-Man was the crook behind the crime wave after Sweet Polly was taken captive. Underdog had to rescue her and defeat Batty-Man, but he failed and was captured. Batty-Man later planned to steal all the gold in Fort Knox and use it to go to Europe by turning the gold into bowling balls. Underdog and Polly escaped before they could get turned into bowling balls and defeated Batty-Man. Everything was then returned to its rightful owners.
Batty-Man was later freed from prison by Simon Bar Sinister. He, along with Riff Raff and the Electric Eel, was enlisted to help Simon with his Vacuum Gun plan, which Underdog later stopped.
In the 1987 Spotlight Comics Underdog #2, Batty-Man was at home watching the news when he noticed Sweet Polly. He instantly fell in love with Sweet Polly and ordered his right-hand man, Georgie, and his bat minions to kidnap Sweet Polly and bring her over to his castle in order to woo her. But Sweet Polly did not return his feelings and Batty-Man ordered Georgie to take her down to the catacombs. Shoeshine heard Polly's cries for help and changed into Underdog to rescue her. After Polly was rescued, Batty-Man said to her that "their love was never meant to be."
Appearances: Batty-Man, The Vacuum Gun
Georgie (voiced by George S. Irving) is Batty-Man's assistant.
Appearances: The Bubbleheads
The Bubblehead Empire is a society of people who all wear air helmets and live under the sea, in the city of Maldemare (the name being a take-off on the French phrase mal de mer, meaning “seasickness”). They command sea creatures to do their bidding and deal with their prisoners by feeding them to a giant clam. The city is ruled by the Bubblehead Emperor, who in turn was ruled by the Bubblehead Empress.
The Bubblehead Empress was tired of living under the sea, so she wanted to take over the dry land. The Bubblehead scientists worked to destroy the land, using earthquakes and volcanoes, but those two evil plans were foiled by Underdog. As a result, the two scientists were fed to the Giant Clam. The third evil plot was to use a machine creating a tidal wave powerful enough to destroy the Earth. Soon, everybody around the world was aware that something peculiar was happening to the ocean. Sweet Polly Purebred, with the aid from one of the world's leading scientists Professor Moby Von Ahab (the name being a take-off on both Captain Ahab and Moby Dick), investigated what was happening under the sea, but were eventually captured and tossed into the giant clam. Underdog got word that his friends were held captive, rescued Sweet Polly and the Professor and destroyed the tidal wave machine.
Appearances: Zot
Irving and Ralph are a two-headed dragon that are known as the legendary enemies of the planet Zot. For every task they do, they do it with teamwork as noted by the quote "Teamwork! Teamwork! That's what counts!". When they attacked while Underdog was to forcibly wed Glissando, Princess of Zot, Underdog easily defeated them and they promised never to bother Zot's inhabitants again. Upon their defeat, Underdog was allowed to return home to Earth, knowing that he had helped Glissando find her future husband: Zot's Prime Minister.
Appearances: The Magnet Men, The Flying Sorcerers
The Magnet Men are evil robots from another planet. The Magnet Men feed on metal. They demanded that the Earth give them all of its metal. When the Earth refuses, the Magnet Men use their Great Gravity Gun to pull the Earth towards them. As the Earth moves away from the Sun, the planet plunges into a deep freeze. Underdog defeats the Magnet Men, destroys the Great Gravity Gun, and puts the Earth back in its correct position in space.
In "The Flying Sorcerers," one Magnet Man was abducted by Prince Bric and Prince Brac to make a cake for their father, King Cup. Unfortunately, all cakes the Magnet Men make are made of metal.
Appearances: The Marbleheads
The Marbleheads are people made of marble. Captain Marblehead (voiced by Allen Swift) is the dictator of their planet. Captain Marblehead holds their most powerful weapon, the Granite Gun, that could turn anyone into solid stone and used it on Underdog, but to Marblehead's shock he breaks free. Underdog defeats the Marbleheads and the Granite Gun and frees all the slaves.
Appearances: The Molemen
The Molemen are an evil society of giant moles who live underground, led by the evil King Mange (voiced by Allen Swift). They planned to conquer the world by stealing all the food in the world, thus making everyone weak, sluggish and without energy. With this advantage, the Molemen and their giant ants would have no problem conquering the world. Other giant bugs under the Molemens' ownership include a giant caterpillar who encased Underdog and Polly in a cocoon, and a giant spider who attempted to trap them in a web.
As Sweet Polly was investigating the thefts, she was captured by King Mange and Underdog was called to rescue her, but he succumbed to the Mole-Hole Gun, the Molemen's secret weapon. Afterwards, he was captured. King Mange threatened to destroy Sweet Polly if Underdog did not do what Mange said. Underdog got Sweet Polly free and soon had the answer to everyone's energy problems. He filled every water reservoir in the world with his Super Energy Pills, investing the water with tremendous energy. Soon afterward, the citizens had enough energy to escape the Molemen's attack and the Army had the strength to fight. King Mange was eventually defeated and arrested.
Appearances: Underdog vs. Overcat
Overcat (voiced by Allen Swift) is a giant anthropomorphic cat who was once the infamous ruler of the planet Felina. He is an arrogant bully and also has all of Underdog's powers.
One day on Felina, the milk wells ran dry, so Overcat stole the cows from the Earth, kidnapped Sweet Polly Purebred and forced her to milk the cows so the giant cats of Felina can have a lifetime supply of milk. After Underdog rescued Polly and the cows, Overcat challenged Underdog to a winner-take-all fight. Unless Underdog fought Overcat, the giant cats of Felina would destroy the Earth. As Underdog fought Overcat, it appeared Overcat had the upper-hand, but Overcat's size and lack of speed allowed Underdog to come out the victor. Underdog promised milk growing from coconut trees to the giant cats of Felina if the giant cats banished Overcat from Felina and let the other worlds live as they pleased. Underdog carried out the promise and all the cats were happy, because with the coconut trees, the cats would not run out of milk. After being banished from Felina, Overcat swore he would find another planet to conquer, train harder to become stronger and one day return to Earth to wipe out Underdog. Despite this, Overcat was never seen in the series again afterwards.
Appearances: A New Villain, The Vacuum Gun
Slippery Eel is one of the world's most dangerous criminals. He got the name The Electric Eel after he was electrified by the gates of the prison's electric fence while he was trying to escape. After being electrified, he gained the power to control electricity.
Electric Eel was the only villain who ever actually defeated Underdog, using his electrical powers and apparently killing Underdog. However, before he "died", Underdog requested that he not be thrown into the lake. Eel, being the villain that he was, naturally decided to throw Underdog into the lake, which drained the electricity from Underdog's body and restored him to "life", whereupon he polished off Eel and his gang. Eel was then confined in a glass prison cell.
In "The Vacuum Gun," Electric Eel and his gang were recruited by Simon Bar Sinister when he found Eel's sewer hideout.
Appearances: From Hopeless to Helpless, Tricky Trap by Tap Tap 
Tap Tap the Chiseler is a criminal that chisels jewelry, making them into smaller pieces of jewelry. He bears an amazing resemblance to Underdog, and Tap Tap can use this advantage to impersonate Underdog. However, unlike Underdog, he does not speak in rhyme. He also seems to be close friends with Riff Raff. He is voiced by George S. Irving.
In "From Hopeless to Helpless", after Riff Raff stole the Hopeless Diamond, Tap Tap was hired to help cut it into little pieces so that Riff Raff could sell it and impersonate Underdog in order to commit crimes all over town. Everyone, including Sweet Polly (this is the only episode in the series where even she begin to doubt about Underdog, due to her being fooled by Tap Tap and mistaking him for Underdog after he snatched her purse), thought Underdog had turned to crime and he was sent to jail, much to Underdog's shock. Tap Tap pulled off the crimes so excellently that even Underdog (thanks to Sweet Polly's biased lecturing) was convinced he was guilty, believing that he had sleepwalked when the crimes were committed. However, Riff Raff needed Underdog to break the Hopeless Diamond into a million pieces after Tap Tap had failed to cut it, so they broke Underdog out of jail and told Underdog that Tap Tap had imitated him and framed him for the crimes all over town. Now knowing that Tap Tap had been responsible for the crimes that were supposedly committed by him, Underdog pretended to really turn to crime in order to fool the gang. When he finally retrieved the Hopeless Diamond from Riff Raff, Mooch and Tap Tap, he apprehended them and explained to the townspeople, including Sweet Polly, how Tap Tap had imitated him and framed him for the crimes. The townspeople, including Sweet Polly apologized to Underdog for the misunderstanding and falsely accusing him, and prior to the episode "Tricky Trap by Tap Tap", Tap Tap was sent to prison.
At that point, Tap Tap once again disguised himself as Underdog again and broke out of jail on the same day Underdog was visiting the prison. Part of his revenge plan was to first purchase a bomb from a bomb factory and borrow a policeman's handcuffs. He used the handcuffs to cuff himself to Sweet Polly and threatened to use the bomb to blow himself and Sweet Polly to bits if Underdog did not do what he said. Underdog stopped him by melting the handcuffs with his cosmic vision, then tackling Tap Tap, accidentally detonating the bomb in the process. Underdog was, of course, unharmed, while Tap Tap was left singed and dazed.
Appearances: The Witch of Pickyoon
The Wicked Witch of Pickyoon is an evil witch who rules over the strange land of the Pickyoons and has enslaved all who inhabit the land. She lives in a castle in the mountains of Pickyoon.
She wished to be the most powerful being in all of Pickyoon and she was, until Underdog came along. She planned to capture Sweet Polly and put Underdog in her power. She put a spell on Sweet Polly, causing her to fall asleep for 1,000 years. The Witch was the only one who knew how to break the spell (although, everybody knows the only way to break a spell is as if the hero kisses someone under the spell). If she was going to tell Underdog how to undo the spell, he had to perform three tasks: steal water, steal diamonds and help her assemble an army to conquer the world. Unless Underdog helped the Witch with those tasks, she would not break the spell that had been cast on Sweet Polly. Underdog refused to accomplish the tasks, for it would make him as wicked as the Witch. But every time Underdog refused to do the tasks, the Witch reminded him that Polly would sleep for 1,000 years unless he did what she said. Underdog struck water by burrowing through the underground depths of Pickyoon and made diamonds out of coal. Soon, all that was left was to help the Witch conquer the world. When Underdog refused to perform the final task, he eventually got into a fight with the Witch, causing her to vanish forever by destroying her broom. Afterwards, Underdog awakened Polly with a kiss and the people of Pickyoon were freed from the Witch's power.
Appearances: Round and Round
Zorm is the ruler of a strange planet. He planned to take over the world, but in order to do that, he must keep Underdog from interfering. He sent Cron to Earth. Cron put a charm around Underdog's neck that caused him to fall under his dizzy spell when standing up. But when Underdog sat down, he felt perfectly fine. Underdog eventually got the charm off and foiled Zorm's plan.
Appearances: Round and Round
Cron is Zorm's henchman.
The following villains gave up their evil plans after being thwarted by Underdog:
Appearances: The Silver Thieves
The Cloud Men are a race of ghost-like creatures. They live on the Planet Cumulus and are led by King Cumulus Regulus (voiced by Allen Swift). When humans "interfere with them," the Cloud Men lightning jolt them by shooting out electric bolts from their fingers that turn them into living statues. They stole all the silver on Earth, including Underdog's ring, because everything they had was made of gold and "every Cloud Man must have a silver lining". When Underdog and Sweet Polly headed for a conveyor belt, Underdog found his ring and took his Underdog Super Energy Pill, then defeated the Cloud Men. In the end, the Cloud Men traded gold for silver with the Earth.
Appearances: The Flying Sorcerers
The Flying Sorcerers are a strange alien race led by King Cup (voiced by Allen Swift).
King Cup sent his twin sons Prince Bric and Prince Brac to find someone who can bake a cake for his people after the old royal baker was fired for his cake not being good. The first two baking slaves they found upon King Cup firing a dart at three possible planets were a Magnet Man and an inhabitant of Zot, but they could not bake a cake that tasted like cake (the Magnet Man's cake was made of metal and the Zot Man's cake's texture was gummy and sticky) and were imprisoned. Then they made Sweet Polly their new baking slave. Before Underdog could rescue her, Bric and Brac transformed him into a bouncing ball. Sweet Polly was forced to bake 500 cakes for the Flying Sorcerers, but her weariness from baking the cakes made her fall into the giant mixing bowl she was using to make the cakes. Underdog freed himself from Bric and Brac's spell and defeated the Flying Sorcerers. At first, King Cup was upset that Underdog was taking his baking slave home, but after vowing he would not abuse others again, he received one of Sweet Polly's cake recipes so that he could make his own cakes for his people. It's implied that King Cup released and returned the Magnet and Zot Men to their respective home planets afterwards.
Appearances: Film
Helen Patterson is the Principal of Molly and Jack's school.
She is portrayed by Samantha Bee.
Dance Mania is a studio album by American musician Tito Puente.[1][2][3] The album was added to the National Recording Registry in 2002. It is also listed among the 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die.[4][5]
All tracks written by Tito Puente, except where noted.
[6]
The 27th Air Defense Corps (Russian: 27-й корпус ПВО) was a corps of the Soviet Air Defense Forces and briefly the Russian Air Defense Forces.
Formed in 1960 from the Baltic Air Defense Corps, the corps provided air defense for the Latvian and Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republics. In the early 1970s it took over responsibility for Kaliningrad Oblast as well. Initially part of the 2nd Independent Air Defense Army, it was subordinated to the Air Forces of the Baltic Military District from the late 1970s to the mid-1980s. In 1986 the corps became part of the 6th Independent Air Defense Army, and was disbanded in 1994 after the Russian withdrawal from the Baltics following the end of the Cold War and the Dissolution of the Soviet Union.
In the summer of 1954, the air defense units in the Baltic states became part of the new Baltic Air Defense Corps of the Soviet Air Defense Forces, headquartered in Riga. In early 1957, the Baltic Air Defense Corps and the Air Defense Directorate of the Baltic Fleet were merged to form the Separate Baltic Air Defense Corps, which also included the 14th Air Defense Division at Tallinn. During the Air Defense Forces reorganization in the spring and summer of 1960, the corps became the 27th Air Defense Corps, part of the 2nd Independent Air Defense Army at Minsk, still with headquarters in Riga. The 27th Corps controlled air defense on the territory of the Latvian and Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republics. It included two interceptor regiments: the 54th Guards at Vaiņode and the 372nd at Daugavpils. The 158th Guards Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade was formed in 1961 at Liepāja with the corps. In 1967 and 1968, the 205th Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade was formed from a regiment of the corps at Riga. The 77th Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade was formed around the same time from a regiment at Ventspils. The 85th Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade was formed at Kaunas around the same time.[1]
In 1973 it took over responsibility for Kaliningrad Oblast when the 3rd Air Defense Division was disbanded with its units directly subordinated to the headquarters of the 27th Corps. The corps gained the 689th Guards Fighter Aviation Regiment at Nivenskoye,[2] the 169th Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade at Neman, the 69th Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade at Baltiysk, the 183rd Guards Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade at Gvardeysk, and the 298th Radio-Technical Regiment at Zelenogradsk. In August 1974, the 298th became the 81st Radio-Technical Brigade, before relocating to Pereslavlskoye in 1977.[3] In 1975, two radio-technical regiments from the corps merged to form the 80th Radio-Technical Brigade at Tukums.[2] Between 1978 and 1985, the corps was subordinated to the Baltic Military District. At the same time, its fighter aviation regiments were transferred to the Air Forces of the district.[4] In early 1986, it became part of the 6th Independent Air Defense Army. At this time, the corps included two interceptor regiments: the 54th Guards with 38 Su-27s,[5] and the 689th Guards with 36 Su-27s, as well as seven surface-to-air missile brigades: the 69th, 77th, 85th, 158th Guards, 169th, 183rd Guards and 205th, and two radio-technical brigades operating radar for the corps: the 80th and 81st.[2] In 1987, the 85th Brigade was disbanded with its personnel transferred to the 466th Brigade. The latter had been recently formed at Vilnius from a regiment. The 85th was replaced by the mobilization 427th Anti-Aircraft Rocket Regiment, whose headquarters was formed in Leningrad Oblast with the 6th Independent Air Defense Army.[1]
In 1989, the 69th Brigade became the 365th Anti-Aircraft Rocket Regiment, which was disbanded in 1991.[3] In the fall of 1990, the 54th Guards was disbanded with its lineage transferred to the 594th Training Fighter Aviation Regiment.[6] The 77th Brigade disbanded in December 1992, and the 205th Brigade disbanded in 1993. In early 1993, the equipment and personnel of the 158th Brigade were withdrawn to Leningrad Oblast, where they merged with the 82nd Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade to form the 500th Guards Anti-Aircraft Rocket Regiment.[1] Around the same time, the 466th Brigade and its S-300 missiles were withdrawn to Smolensk Oblast, where they inherited the lineage of the disbanded 493rd Guards Anti-Aircraft Rocket Regiment to become the 284th Guards Anti-Aircraft Rocket Regiment.[2] In 1994, the corps headquarters was disbanded.[4] On 26 July of that year, the 689th Guards transferred to the Air and Air Defense Forces of the Baltic Fleet.[7]
Thomas C. Browne (c. 1792 – November 4, 1862) was an American jurist and politician from Kentucky and Illinois.
Browne was born in Kentucky around 1792. He moved to Shawneetown, Illinois in 1812. He was elected to the Legislature of the Illinois Territory in 1814 as a representative of Gallatin County, and again in 1816 as a member of the Legislative Council. Browne was appointed to the Illinois Supreme Court in 1818, and re-appointed on January 19, 1825. In 1841 Browne was assigned to the 6th Judicial Circuit of the newly expanded Court. He was accused of incompetence in 1843, but was defended by Abraham Lincoln and the charges were dropped. Browne lost his seat in 1848, when a new Illinois Constitution reduced the justices from nine to three. He died on November 4, 1862, in San Francisco.[1][2]

This article about an Illinois politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Restaurant De Kersentuin is a restaurant in Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. It was a fine dining restaurant that was awarded one Michelin star in 1985 and retained that rating until 1992.[2][3][4][5][6]
Gault Millau awarded the restaurant 13 out of 20 points.[7]
The restaurant was famous not only because of the Michelin star, but also because it belonged to the front runners of the nouvelle cuisine. In 2003, Sistermans admitted that he and Joop Braakhekke did not understand the real nouvelle cuisine.[8]
The present head chef is Michel van Dijk.[9] Former head chefs are: Jon Sistermans (1980-1994),[10] Rudolf Bos (1994-1997),[11][12] Guus Vredenburg (1997-2000),[13] Michel van der Kroft (2000-2006)[14] and Marcel de Leeuw (2006-2011)[15][16]
Joop Braakhekke (1980-1993) came to fame in De Kersentuin, but was not the head chef. He acted as restaurant-manager and Maître d'hôtel, until fired in 1993.[17][18]
Restaurant De Kersentuin is housed in the Garden Hotel, formerly part of the Dikker & Thijs Group and now part of the Bilderberg Group.[19][20]
In 2004, the whole Queens Moat Houses, parent company of the Bilderberg Group, was sold to "Whitehall", part of Goldman Sachs.[21]
52°21′3.48″N 4°52′26.7″E﻿ / ﻿52.3509667°N 4.874083°E﻿ / 52.3509667; 4.874083
Merrimack College is a private Augustinian university in North Andover, Massachusetts. It was founded in 1947 by the Order of St. Augustine with an initial goal to educate World War II veterans. It enrolls approximately 5,700 undergraduate and graduate students from 34 states and 36 countries.[5] The school has an acceptance rate of 75%.[6]
Merrimack College was established in 1947 by the Order of Saint Augustine following an invitation by the Archbishop of Boston, Richard Cushing.[7][8] It is the second Augustinian affiliated college in the United States after Villanova University.[9] Church leaders saw a need to create a liberal arts college largely in a commuter school format for veterans returning from World War II.[10] Archbishop Cushing tabbed Reverend Vincent McQuade, O.S.A, to lead the college. McQuade was a native of Lawrence, Massachusetts and longtime friend of Archbishop Cushing. McQuade joined the effort after working on the faculty at Villanova working with veterans transitioning home from the war. McQuade organized the creation process, including land purchases and zoning, securing a charter from the state, establishing curriculum, and managing the college's campus construction. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts granted a charter to The Augustinian College of the Merrimack Valley in March 1947 and the college officially opened in September of the same year.[7]
Merrimack College has had 8 presidents since it was founded in 1947:
Merrimack College offers more than 100 undergraduate academic programs and more than 40 graduate programs and accelerated master's degrees.[12]
The College's five schools include the Girard School of Business, the Winston School of Education and Social Policy, the School of Arts and Sciences, the School of Engineering and Computational Sciences, and the School of Nursing and Health Sciences.[13]
The main campus of Merrimack College is situated on 220 acres (1 km2) of land in North Andover, Massachusetts, a suburb 25 miles north of downtown Boston. The main campus features over 40 buildings, including a 125,000-volume library; several classroom buildings, including the state-of-the-art School of Engineering and Computational Sciences complex; Palmisano Hall; the Sakowich Campus Center; the Rogers Center for the Arts; the Merrimack Athletic Complex; Austin Hall, which houses administrative offices; the Collegiate Church of Christ the Teacher; student apartment buildings and residence halls. Additionally, Merrimack owns several properties outside of the main campus, including the Louis H. Hamel Health Center and Saint Ambrose Friary (located across Elm Street from the bulk of campus). The library is named after Rev. Vincent A. McQuade, O.S.A., the founder of the college.[14] The college’s academic buildings, as well as the church and Austin Hall, are generally fronted towards Route 114, with the residence halls, athletic facilities and campus center lying further back. 
In 2017, the college received a $29.7 million tax-exempt bond from MassDevelopment. Merrimack designated several major projects for the funds, including construction of two academic buildings and three residence halls; renovations to renovate O’Reilly Hall, McQuade Library, and several other campus buildings; and upgrades to athletic facilities.[15]
The athletic teams, except for ice hockey and men's lacrosse, participate in the Northeast Conference of NCAA Division I. They began their four-year transition from Division II to Division I during the 2019–20 season and have been full Division I members since the 2023–24 season.[17] The college will join the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference as a full member in 2024.[18]
During the college's transition to Division I, it added varsity programs in women's bowling, men's volleyball, men's golf, and dance, bringing the total number of teams participating in intercollegiate sport to 28 (12 men's teams and 16 women's teams).[19]  The men's and women's college ice hockey programs are currently NCAA Division I programs, participating in the Hockey East conference.[20]
Highway One is a 1977 Australian documentary film by Steve Otton, which features Trudie Adams.[1]
Adventures of a group of surfers who travel the coast surfing and showing "Morning of the Earth".[2]
In 2018, the film was rediscovered by ABC's investigative team and revealed it features Trudie Adams when she was 18 years old, a year before she went missing in June 1978. In the film, Adams plays the girlfriend of the main character and footage shows her dancing with her on-screen boyfriend and sharing a romantic candlelit dinner. Adams is chatting with friends, and appears fresh-faced and carefree.[3]
A soundtrack was released in 1976 and featured music by Richard Clapton, The Dingoes, Ol' 55, Skyhooks and Bigola Bop Band. The single "Capricorn Dancer" peaked at number 40 on the Australian Kent Music Report.[4]

This article related to an Australian film of the 1970s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Strand is the second studio album by the American indie rock band The Spinanes, released in 1996 by Sub Pop.[6][7]
The album was recorded in Memphis, Tennessee.[4] Elliott Smith sings on two tracks.[8]
Strand was released on February 27, 1996, by Sub Pop.[9] To promote the album, the band performed with two additional musicians at Lounge Ax in Chicago, Illinois, on March 26, 1996.[10]
AllMusic praised the album's variety of instruments and the addition of guest vocalists.[2] The Washington Post wrote: "With Rebecca Gates adding piano, organ and mellotron to her guitar, such hushed, atmospheric tracks as 'Madding' and 'Luminous' live up to their Cocteau Twinnish titles."[11] Magnet wrote that the album "transcended [the band's] ragged Northwest-indie roots and gave Gates’ smart songwriting a dreamy, atmospheric sheen."[8] Trouser Press wrote that "the album exists on another plane, a dreamstate rooted in studio experimentation not live practicality."[12]


This 1990s rock album–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 2022 Patriot League men's basketball tournament was the conference postseason tournament for the Patriot League. The tournament was held on four dates during March 2022 at campus sites of the higher seeds. The winner, Colgate, received the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA tournament.[1]
All ten teams in the conference standings qualified for the tournament. The teams were seeded by record in conference, with a tiebreaker system to seed teams with identical conference records.
The tiebreakers used by the Patriot League are: 1) head-to-head record of teams with identical record, 2) comparison of records against individual teams in the conference starting with the top-ranked team(s) and working down, 3) NCAA NET Rankings available on day following the conclusion of Patriot League regular-season play and 4) comparison of winning percentage versus out-of-league common opponents. Holy Cross was given the higher seed than Lafayette due to having a better top-to-bottom record (by defeating Navy). Bucknell was given the higher seed than American due to having a better top-to-bottom record (by defeating Boston University).[2][3]
* denotes overtime period
Wayne Pinnock (born 24 October 2000) is a Jamaican athlete who won the silver medal at the 2023 World Athletics Championships in the long jump.[1]
Pinnock finished ninth in the 2022 World Athletics Championships – Men's long jump on his major championship debut.[2] Prior to this, Pinnock won the long jump at the 2022 NCAA Division I Outdoor Track and Field Championships to complete the double having previously also won the 2022 NCAA Division I Indoor Track and Field Championships.[3]
With his first jump at the 2023 World Athletics Championships in Budapest in August 2023, Pinnock achieved a new personal best distance of 8.54 metres.[4] He won the silver medal in the event.[5]
He won the long jump NCAA Indoor Championships in March 2024 in Boston, Massachusetts.[6][7] With his effort, he equalled the Jamaican indoor record, matching the 8.40m achieved by James Beckford and Carey McLeod.[8]

This biographical article relating to Jamaican athletics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
O'Callaghan's Mills, also named O’Callaghan’s Mills & Kilkishen, is a parish in County Clare and part of the Ceantar na Lochanna grouping of parishes within the Roman Catholic Diocese of Killaloe.[1][2] The parish is an amalgamation of the medieval parishes of Clonlea and Killuran plus some townlands taken over from other parishes.[3]
Current (2022) co-parish priest is Donal Dwyer.[4]
The parish has three churches.
The main church is the Church of St. Patrick in O'Callaghan's Mills. It is a cruciform building built in 1839. In 1979-1980 it was renovated and refurbished which gave the church a completely different look. Local tradition claims that there was a chapel on this location, built 100 years earlier.[5]
The second church is the St. Senan's church in Kilkishen. Its history is unclear with the church already mentioned in 1811. At that time it was the focus of a brawl over the seating arrangements. In 1865 the church was rededicated after an enlargement and renovation.[6]
The third church of the parish is the St. Vincent de Paul's Church in Oatfield. The church was built in 1830 and replaced an earlier thatched chapel. In 1839 the church was victim of the Night of the Big Wind and lost its roof. The congregation decided to enlarge the church and add two transepts before placing the new roof, instead of just repairing.[7]
This Irish location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The BL 9.2-inch Mark XI gun[note 1] was a British 50 calibre high-velocity naval gun which was mounted as primary armament on armoured cruisers and secondary armament on pre-dreadnought battleships.
The gun with its increased length of 50 calibres was an attempt to extract a higher velocity, and hence more range and armour-piercing capability, from the 9.2-inch gun. Like other British 50-calibre guns of the period, it was relatively unsuccessful and was the last model of 9.2-inch gun Britain built.
Guns were mounted in the following ships :
After the scrapping of these ships, these guns and mountings were retained in storage. There was the intention, at one point, early during World War Two, to use them as armament for small monitors which would have been reduced versions of the Roberts-class monitors; this however never advanced beyond the planning stage.
The National Archives of the United Kingdom, Kew. SUPP 6/61
Caryophyllaeides is a genus of flatworms belonging to the family Lytocestidae.[1]
Species:[1]
Averasboro Battlefield Historic District is a national historic district located near Erwin, Harnett County, North Carolina, United States. It encompasses four contributing buildings, three contributing sites, three contributing structures, and one contributing object on the battlefield associated with the American Civil War Battle of Averasboro of March 15–16, 1865. They include the separately listed Oak Grove and Lebanon plantations, along with a Commemorative Marker (1872), Chicora Cemetery and over 4,000 acres of rural agricultural land.[2]
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2001.[1]
The American Battlefield Trust and its partners have acquired and preserved 520 acres (2.1 km2) of the Averasboro battlefield.[3]

This article about a property in Harnett County, North Carolina on the National Register of Historic Places is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
512 (five hundred [and] twelve) is the natural number following 511 and preceding 513.
512 is a power of two: 29 (2 to the 9th power)[1] and the cube of 8: 83.[2]
It is the eleventh Leyland number.[3]
It is also the third Dudeney number.[4]
It is a self number in base 12.[5]
It is a harshad number in decimal.
It is the cube of the sum of its digits in base 10.[6]
It is the number of directed graphs on 3 labeled nodes.[7]
512 bytes is a common disk sector size,[8] and exactly a half of kibibyte.
Internet Relay Chat restricts the size of a message to 510 bytes, which fits to 512-bytes buffers when coupled with the message-separating CRLF sequence.[9]
512 = 2·256 is the highest number of glyphs that the VGA character generator can use simultaneously.[citation needed]
Selena Quintanilla released a song titled El Chico del Apartamento 512 (the title referring to area code 512, which serves Austin, Texas[10][better source needed]), in 1995.[11]
Lamb of God recorded a song titled "512" for their 2015 album VII: Sturm und Drang.[12]
Mora and Jhay Cortez recorded a song titled "512" (The number 512 in this song refers to the Percocet 512 pill, a white, round pill whose active substances are acetaminophen and oxycodone hydrochloride) in February of 2021.

This article about a number is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Vanda falcata subsp. xichangensis is a subspecies of Vanda falcata. It is an epiphytic orchid native to Southwest Sichuan, China.[1]
The morphology closely resembles Vanda falcata, however the spur is shorter.[2]
Like all orchids, it is protected under the CITES appendix II regulations of international trade.[3]

This Vandeae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Farkadona (Greek: Φαρκαδόνα, romanized: Farkadóna, [farkaˈðona]; before 1955: Τσιότι, Tsióti, [ˈt͡sjo.ti][2]) is a municipality in the southeastern Trikala regional unit, part of Thessaly in Greece. It is located about halfway between the cities Larissa to the east, and Trikala to the west, at about 30 km from both. It is situated in the Thessalian Plain, near the river Pineios. Farkadona is on the Greek National Road 6 (Larissa - Trikala - Ioannina - Igoumenitsa).
The municipality Farkadona was formed at the 2011 local government reform by the merger of the following 3 former municipalities, that became municipal units:[3]
The municipality has an area of 368.674 km2, the municipal unit 219.776 km2.[4]
The municipal unit of Farkadona is divided into the following communities:[3]
Farkadona is named after the ancient Thessalian town Pharcadon (Ancient Greek: Φαρκαδών - Pharkadon). The ruins of ancient Pharcadon are located on a hill near the village of Klokotos,[5] 5 km southwest of the modern town. The modern town of Farkadona was known as Tsioti before 1955.[2]
This Thessaly location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Barada (Arabic: بَرَدَىٰ / ALA-LC: Baradā) is the main river of Damascus, the capital city of Syria.
"Barada" is thought to be derived from the word barid, which means "cold" in Semitic languages.[1] The ancient Greek name (Greek: Χρυσορρόας, romanized: Chrysorrhoas), means "streaming with gold".[2]
Throughout the arid plateau region east of Damascus, oases, streams, and a few minor rivers that empty into swamps and small lakes provide water for local irrigation. Most important of these is the Barada, a river that rises in the Anti-Lebanon Mountains and disappears into the desert. The Barada flows out of the karst spring of Ain al-Fijah, about 27 kilometres (17 mi) north west of Damascus in the Anti-Lebanon Mountains, but its true source is Lake Barada, a small lake that is also a karst spring located about 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) from Zabadani. The Barada descends through a steep, narrow gorge named "Rabwe" before it arrives at Damascus, where it divides into seven branches that irrigate the Al Ghutah (الغوطة) oasis, the location of Damascus. Eventually the Ghouta reached a size of 370 square kilometers, although in the 1980s, urban growth started replacing agricultural use with housing and industry.[3] The river has also suffered from severe drought in the last decades, mainly due to the lower rainfall rates and the large increase in the population in the area.[4] It also suffers from serious pollution problems, especially in the summer, where there is almost no flow and little water in the basin.
Barada is identified as Abana (or Amanah, in Qere and Ketiv variation in Tanakh and classical Chrysorrhoas) which is the more important of the two rivers of Damascus, Syria and was mentioned in the Book of Kings (2 Kings 5:12). As the Barada rises in the Anti-Libanus, and escapes from the mountains through a narrow gorge, its waters debouch fan-like, in canals or rivers, the name of one of which, the Banias river, retains a trace of Abana.[5]
John MacGregor, who gives a description of them in his book Rob Roy on the Jordan, affirmed that as a work of hydraulic engineering, the system and construction of the canals, by which the Abana and Pharpar were used for irrigation, might be considered as one of the most complete and extensive in the world. In the Bible, Naaman exclaims that the Abana and Pharpar are greater than all the waters of Israel.[5]
Barada's water branches at Hameh village and the gorge of Rabweh into six distributaries or canals, two of which, Yazid and Tora, branch off the northern bank, while the remaining four,  Mezzawi, Derani, Qanawat, and Banias, are formed from the southern bank.[6]
The Yazid canal runs north to the districts of Salihya and Qabun; Tora, the oldest of all, passes through Al-Jisr Al-Abyad district, heading to Jobar and Harasta; Mezzawi tears through Mezzeh; Derani runs towards Darya; Banias runs by the National Museum north of the Citadel and reaches Bab Touma; and, finally, the Qanawat canal pours into the southern quarters of the old city following Via Recta.[7]
Outside the city of Damascus, the water gathers to pour into River Qleit which runs to Eastern Ghouta.[7]
33°30′48.75″N 36°18′18″E﻿ / ﻿33.5135417°N 36.30500°E﻿ / 33.5135417; 36.30500
Platyplectrum melanopyga, the Wokan cannibal frog, is a species of frog in the family Limnodynastidae.
It is found in New Guinea.
It was classified in the former genus Lechriodus until its synonymization with Platyplectrum in 2021.[2]
As one of the most common amphibians of New Guinea, its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical dry forests, subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, freshwater marshes, intermittent freshwater marshes, and plantations.

This Myobatrachidae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
HMS Carnarvon Bay was a Bay-class anti-aircraft frigate built for the Royal Navy during World War 2.
The Bay-class frigates were anti-aircraft versions of the Loch-class anti-submarine frigates intended for service in the Far East.[1] Carnarvon Bay displaced 1,600 long tons (1,600 t) at standard load and 2,420 long tons (2,460 t) at deep load. The ship had an overall length of 307 feet (93.6 m), a beam of 38 feet 7 inches (11.8 m) and a draught of 12 feet 9 inches (3.9 m).[2] She was powered by two vertical triple-expansion steam engines, each driving one shaft, using steam provided by two Admiralty three-drum boilers. The engines produced a total of 5,500 shaft horsepower (4,100 kW) and gave a maximum speed of 20 knots (37 km/h; 23 mph). Carnarvon Bay carried a maximum of 724 long tons (736 t) of fuel oil that gave her a range of 9,500 nautical miles (17,600 km; 10,900 mi) at 12 knots (22 km/h; 14 mph). The ship's complement was 157 officers and ratings.[1]
The ships were armed with four QF 4-inch Mark XVI dual-purpose guns in two twin mounts forward of the superstructure. Supplementing their anti-aircraft (AA) defence, they had two twin mounts for 40 mm Bofors and two twin mounts for Oerlikon 20 mm cannon AA guns. Some ships had their Oerlikons replaced by two single Bofors guns. She was fitted with a 24-barrel Hedgehog spigot mortar. Two depth charge rails and four throwers were fitted for 50–60 depth charges.[3]
HMS Carnarvon Bay, named after Caernarfon Bay (anglicised as 'Carnarvon Bay') in Gwynedd, Wales, was originally ordered as the Loch-class vessel Loch Maddy, but the order was changed in 1944. Built by Henry Robb of Leith, the ship was laid down on 8 June 1944 and launched on 15 March 1945 by Lady Westwood.
After sea trials Carnarvon Bay was assigned to the Rosyth Flotilla, joining in November 1945. Deployed for training duties, she made a single voyage to Oslo in January 1946, and to Scapa Flow in February. In April she sailed to Harwich to be decommissioned. Laid-up in the Reserve Fleet at Harwich, she was used as an accommodation ship for personnel of the Reserve Fleet.[4]
Carnarvon Bay remained at Harwich until being sold on 28 August 1959.[4]
The 1995–96 NBA season was the Jazz's 22nd season in the National Basketball Association, and 17th season in Salt Lake City, Utah.[1] During the off-season, the Jazz signed free agents Chris Morris,[2][3][4] Greg Foster,[5][6] and second-year guard Howard Eisley.[7][8] The team also released James Donaldson, who was out with a strained hamstring, to free agency in December.[9][10] The Jazz got off to a fast start winning ten of their first twelve games, then later on holding a 32–16 record at the All-Star break,[11] then winning seven straight games between February and March, and finishing second in the Midwest Division with a 55–27 record.[12] They made their thirteenth consecutive trip to the playoffs.[13]
John Stockton had another record breaking season, leading the NBA in assists for the ninth straight season, while breaking Maurice Cheeks career record in steals,[14][15][16] and being named to the All-NBA Second Team, averaging 14.7 points, leading the league with 11.2 assists and contributing 1.7 steals per game. Meanwhile, Karl Malone moved into ninth place in all-time scoring, and was named to the All-NBA First Team, averaging 25.7 points, 9.8 rebounds and 1.7 steals per game. In addition, Jeff Hornacek provided the team with 15.2 points and 1.3 steals per game, while Morris contributed 10.5 points per game, and David Benoit provided with 8.2 points and 4.7 rebounds per game. Off the bench, Antoine Carr contributed 7.3 points per game, while Adam Keefe provided with 6.1 points and 5.5 rebounds per game, and Felton Spencer averaged 5.6 points and 4.3 rebounds per game.[17] Both Stockton and Malone were selected for the 1996 NBA All-Star Game,[18][19][20][21][22] and Malone finished in seventh place in Most Valuable Player voting.[23][24]
In the Western Conference First Round of the playoffs, the Jazz defeated the Portland Trail Blazers in a full five game series, which included a 38-point margin in a 102–64 home win in Game 5.[25][26][27][28] In the Western Conference Semi-finals, they continued to play strong basketball as they beat the Midwest Division champion San Antonio Spurs in six games.[29][30][31][32] However, in the Western Conference finals for the third time in five years, they lost to the Seattle SuperSonics in seven games.[33][34][35][36] The Sonics would reach the NBA Finals, but would lose in six games to the Michael Jordan-led Chicago Bulls.[37][38][39][40][41]
Following the season, Benoit signed as a free agent with the New Jersey Nets,[42][43][44] and Spencer was traded to the Orlando Magic.[45][46][47]
Roster  Last transaction: January 23, 1996
Henry Knollys (died 1583) was an English politician and diplomat.
He was a Member (MP) of the Parliament of England for Grampound in 1547, New Shoreham in 1563, Guildford in 1571 and Christchurch in 1572.[1]

This article about a Member of the Parliament of England during the second Parliament of Elizabeth I, 11 January 1563 to 2 January 1567 is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This English diplomat-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Nashrihab was a local governor at Hatra, an ancient town in modern-day Iraq. Nashrihab is known from many inscriptions of his son Naṣru and ruled from about AD 120 to 125. He was most likely the son of Elkud, who reigned before him.

This Ancient Near East biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
"Chulin Culin Chunfly" is the third single by Puerto Rican reggaeton performer Voltio, from his eponymous second studio album, Voltio. It was released on November 14, 2005, by Sony BMG and White Lion. The album version features Residente of Calle 13, while the remix adds American hip hop group Three 6 Mafia. The music video features Voltio and Residente Calle 13 in various scenes inspired from movies.
The single was Voltio's most successful to date, peaking at number eight on the Billboard Hot Latin Songs chart. The album version single, though not as successful, still managed to peak at number 18 on the same chart.
XXY is a greatest hits/rarities album by The Young Gods. It spans from 1985 to 2005.
Kim Ji-woo (born Kim Jeong-eun on November 22, 1983) is a South Korean actress.[3]
* Note: Most, if not all, large scale South Korean Musicals are generally double or triple cast for a role. The actors share the role equally and alternate throughout the eight show week.
Fendley is a surname. It is similar to Findley and Findlay.
Gelderner Fleuth  (pronounced: [fløːt]) is an approximately 27.0 km (16.8 mi) long, non-navigable, tributary of the Niers in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It rises in the village of An der Gastendonk, which belongs to the city of Kempen, flows first west and then turns north east of Wachtendonk to flow into the Niers near the city of Geldern, which gives it its name.
The creek designated as Gelderner Fleuth on the water station map has its source in the ditch system of the Gastendonk cultural monument in Kempen. The topographical maps still call the creek here Schwarze Rahm (Black Rahm). After a few meters, the Fliethgraben flows in from the left, which connects the stream with the Flöthbach. The Black Rahm flows west and south past a lake, then picks up the counterflowing Uhlesrahm on the left, turns north, flows west of the lake and then picks up an unnamed stream from the right, turning west again; here the river code number changes from 28641 to 28643. The Black Rahm then curves north and changes its name to Spring in the Eyller Bruch. Only after the confluence with the Landwehrbach is it also referred to as Gelderner Fleuth on topographical maps.

This article related to  a river in North Rhine-Westphalia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Spialia rosae is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae. It is found only in Spain.
The larvae feed on roses.

This Pyrginae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The men's 60 metres event at the 2023 European Athletics Indoor Championships will be held on 4 March 2023 at 09:20 (heats), at 18:45 (semi-finals)  and at 20:55 (final) local time.
Qualification: First 4 in each heat (Q) and the next 4 fastest (q) advance to the Semifinals.[1]
Qualification: First 2 in each heat (Q) and the next 2 fastest (q) advance to the Final.[2]
Glenda Emilie Adams (née Felton; 30 December 1939 – 11 July 2007) was an Australian novelist and short story writer, probably best known as the winner of the 1987 Miles Franklin Award for Dancing on Coral. She was a teacher of creative writing, and helped develop writing programs.
Adams' work is found in her own books and short story collections, in numerous short story anthologies, and in journals and magazines.[1] Her essays, stories and articles have been published in, among other magazines, Meanjin, The New York Times Book Review, Panorama, Quadrant, Southerly, Westerly, The Sydney Morning Herald, The Observer and The Village Voice.
Glenda Emilie Felton was born in Ryde, New South Wales, a suburb of Sydney, the younger of two children. She attended Fort Street Primary School for two years and Sydney Girls High School before going to the University of Sydney[2] from which she graduated with an honours degree in Indonesian.[3]
She was a cousin of Australian Prime Minister, John Howard, but held opposing political views and wanted to become a political journalist.[3] She moved to New York City when she won a scholarship to study at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism and graduated in 1965. During this time, she met Gordon Adams, a political scientist at Columbia.  They married in 1967 and had a daughter, Caitlin, before divorcing.
She worked as a lecturer at a number of tertiary institutions, including Columbia University and Sarah Lawrence College, before returning to Australia and the University of Technology, Sydney.  Her subject was writing skills and creative writing.  She helped design the master of arts writing program at the university, a program which became a model for postgraduate writing programs throughout Australia.[3] For the rest of her life, she traveled regularly between New York to see her daughter and teach at Columbia, and Sydney. Glenda Adams died on 11 July 2007 in Sydney, following a battle with ovarian cancer and secondary brain tumours.[3] Her funeral was held on 18 July.[4] She was posthumously awarded the biennial ASA Medal of the Australian Society of Authors.[5]
Adams started writing at the age of 10, with the encouragement of her mother.[3]
While at Columbia University, she joined a fiction workshop and started writing using her real name, after using a male name prior to that to prevent her friends knowing she was writing fiction.[3] Her short stories were published in such magazines as Ms., The Village Voice and Harper's.
After 16 years away, she returned to Australia and became writer-in-residence at the University of Western Australia, the University of Adelaide, and Macquarie University. Her literary friends included Australians Robert Drewe and Kate Grenville (who she supervised as a graduate student at the University of Technology, Sydney,[6]), and the American Grace Paley.[3]
In 1987, her second novel, Dancing on Coral won the Miles Franklin Award and the New South Wales Premier's Literary Award but a residential rule for the latter resulted in her being denied it.  Instead, the prize money was used for a fellowship for a young writer and she was compensated with a special award (with no money attached).[3] Her third novel, Longleg, published in 1990, was also an award-winner.  Her fourth novel, The Tempest of Clemenza was published in both Australia and the United States in 1996, and in 1998, her play, The Monkey Trap, was performed at the Griffin Theatre, in Sydney.
University of Technology Sydney sponsors the UTS Glenda Adams Award for New Writing, which is one of the New South Wales Premier's Literary Awards.[7][8] Formerly the UTS Award for New Writing, the award was renamed in 2008 to honour Adams.[9]
Newspapers in Peru include:
"Empire State of Mind" is a song performed by American rapper Jay-Z featuring American singer Alicia Keys from the former's 11th studio album, The Blueprint 3 (2009). It was released on October 20, 2009. Produced by Al Shux, the song features a music sample of "Love on a Two-Way Street" performed by The Moments. It was originally written by Angela Hunte and Janet Sewell-Ulepic as a tribute to their hometown, New York City. The following month, they submitted it to Jay-Z's label Roc Nation, whose reviews were a discouragement. They later took the suggestion of an associate of EMI Music Publishing and resubmitted it to Jay-Z, who kept the "New York" singing part on the hook, changed the verses, and recorded it. The song's title, similar to "New York State of Mind" by Billy Joel and "N.Y. State of Mind" by Nas, is a wordplay and tribute to New York's nickname "Empire State" and could also be a reference to the Empire State Building in Manhattan.
The song originally featured Hunte on the hook, but when Hunte and Sewell-Ulepic were asked if they thought anyone else would be more appropriate for the chorus, Hunte suggested Keys. Mary J. Blige was also considered for the part, but Keys was chosen after Jay-Z heard the song's piano loop. "Empire State of Mind" contains songwriting contributions from Keys and Shux. The song was described by critics as an "orchestral rap ballad" with "crashing piano chords" and a "soaring" hook. It contains references to various locations in New York and its famous residents, while describing the city's essence.
A critical and commercial success, "Empire State of Mind" was included in multiple critics' top 10 list of the best songs of 2009, including Rolling Stone magazine and The New York Times. It was also nominated for three Grammy Awards, winning Best Rap Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration. The song achieved commercial success worldwide. It peaked within the top 10 in many countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, France, Italy and Sweden. In the US, the song topped the Billboard Hot 100 for five consecutive weeks, becoming Jay-Z's first number-one single on the chart as a lead artist. It appeared in 2009 year-end charts in Italy, Australia and the US, where it was also the last number one hit of the 2000s. As of June 2023, the single has sold over 9 million units in the United States.[1]
In the song's music video, which is primarily in black-and-white, Jay-Z and Keys are shown performing the song in various locations in New York. "Empire State of Mind" was released as the third single from The Blueprint 3 in October 2009. It has been performed by Jay-Z and Keys multiple times, including during the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards and the American Music Awards of 2009. Usually when the duo performs the song, an overhead screen shows images of places in New York. Keys recorded a sequel entitled "Empire State of Mind (Part II) Broken Down", which is featured on her fourth studio album The Element of Freedom (2009). Her version was positively received by critics, reached the Top 10 in the UK, the Netherlands and Ireland charts, and peaked at number fifty-five on the Billboard Hot 100 without an official release. Keys said that she chose to record her own version of "Empire State of Mind" because she wanted to express her own personal feelings about New York.

"Empire State of Mind" was originally written by Brooklyn-native singer, songwriter and producer Angela Hunte and writing partner Janet "Jnay" Sewell-Ulepic. Hunte grew up in the same building where rapper and hip hop artist Jay-Z lived—560 State Street, an address which is mentioned in the song.[2] The track's creation was inspired during an overseas trip Hunte and Sewell-Ulepic made to London in February 2009 when they were both feeling homesick.[2] Hunte was ill during that summer, while Sewell-Ulepic's mother was ill. Hunte recalled, "We said to ourselves, 'we complain so much about New York — about the busy streets, about the crowds and the pushing, about the subway system — but I would trade that for anything right now.' Before we left the hotel that night, we knew we would write a song about our city."[2] Although they wrote the song as a way to voice their feelings for their hometown, they sent it to the Roc Nation music label the following month in hope that Jay-Z would like it and record it. When they received a negative response on the track, they were convinced it would never be recorded.[2] However, in the summer of the same year, EMI Music Publishing's (EMI) Jon "Big Jon" Platt heard the track at a barbecue and fell in love with it, believing that "it would be perfect for Jay-Z".[2]
Hunte and Sewell-Ulepic were hesitant, however, as they had already sent the track for consideration and were unsuccessful. According to Hunte, when a Notorious B.I.G. figure she kept – which had never moved before regardless of how loud they played music – fell over as they played the track for Platt, she considered it an omen. She commented, "We all just looked at each other like, 'if Biggie approves, then, send it to Jay'".[2] The next day Platt sent it to Jay-Z, who "loved it and recorded it that night".[2] "We were just so happy he wanted to honor our work and our production", Hunte recalled; "Two female producers/writers, and for him as a rapper to take our song—that's not a combination you see a lot. For him to be so open-minded about it, we just couldn't be any more grateful and thankful."[2] Originally written to be sung,[3] the track's verses were rewritten by Jay-Z, inspired by the original lyrics, leaving Hunte on the song's hook. However, when Hunte and Sewell-Ulepic were asked if they thought someone else would be more appropriate for the chorus, Hunte suggested R&B and soul artist Alicia Keys.[2] Hunte said, "She's never done a record with him and she also has my same vocal tone. She made the song sound so close to the original, She just nailed it and brought it home. It was a great choice."[2] Keys also wrote "Empire State of Mind"'s new bridge.[3]
Jay-Z stated in an interview that after he first heard the track's piano loops, he immediately thought of Keys and wanted her to be featured on the song. Jay-Z said that Mary J. Blige was initially considered for Keys' part on "Empire State of Mind", and he was "two seconds away" from asking Blige to appear on the record's chorus, which would have been a safe move. However, the combination of Keys' sound and piano talent had struck a chord with Jay-Z.[4][5] Keys said of featuring on the song: 
"There was a first phone call, and Jay hit me up like, 'I feel like I have this record that's going to be the anthem of New York. The piano, the way the style [is], the whole flow, and it couldn't be the anthem of New York without you.' Obviously, I'm very grateful to him for reaching out to me and for that type of ability to represent my hometown, like, that was crazy. So we went to the studio. I went to the studio, and [...] I fell in love [with the track] from the jump."[6]In December 2009 Hunte, who would not reveal many details, said the original version of "Empire State of Mind" will one day be released, adding that "The original is so powerful it's only a matter of time till you hear it down the line".[2]
"Empire State of Mind" is a hip hop song that features rap verses from Jay-Z and vocals during the song's chorus from Keys. The piano component that runs throughout the song contains a sample of the 1970 single "Love on a Two-Way Street", written by Burt Keyes and Sylvia Robinson, performed by The Moments.[7] Stephen Dalton of The Times described the song as an "orchestral rap ballad".[8]
The song is played at a moderate tempo of 84 beats per minute and is written in the key of F# major.[9] It has a sequence of F♯–C♯/B–B–F♯ as its chord progression, throughout the single Keys' vocal range changes from the register of A♯3 to C♯5.[9]
The song opens with lyrics referencing locations in New York City,[9] and name-checks notable neighborhoods and captures the city's essence; from attending Knicks basketball games to its famous residents.[10] Drug dealing references, "N-words", and profanity are also present throughout the song.[11][12] Mariel Concepcion of Billboard magazine wrote that "Jay-Z gives a nod to his hometown over a simple piano pattern".[13]
Keys said that while recording the song she wanted to make sure she got the hook right explaining, "I did try it a couple of times, but it was more about capturing the kind of grand feeling of it. With the way I sang it the first time, I was actually kind of sick, and I knew that he needed the record, so I was like, 'Let me get to it.'"[6] Keys had been congested when she first recorded the vocals and redid them after Jay-Z wasn't satisfied with her original take.[14] "I came back and revisited it so that it could be what it is now", Keys added. "So it actually took a couple of times, but every time, the energy was just so high."[6]
"Empire State of Mind" received widespread critical acclaim, with most reviewers praising Keys' vocal performance. Jon Bush of AllMusic listed the song as being a highlight from The Blueprint 3, commenting that it is Jay-Z's "king of crossovers ... a New York flag-waver with plenty of landmark name-dropping that turns into a great anthem with help on the chorus from Alicia Keys".[15] Pete Cashmore of NME described Alicia Keys's cameo as "lusty bellowing", embellishing the "crashing piano chords".[16] Martin Andrew of PopMatters called the song "yet another chance" for Jay-Z to show his respect to New York, but commented that it "remains interesting thanks to a fantastic Al Shux beat and celebratory hook from Alicia Keys."[17] Jayson Rodriguez of MTV News said that Keys "croons" on the track's chorus line, "I'm from Neeeeww Yooooork/These streets will make you feel brand-new/Bright lights will inspire you."[18]
USA Today's Steve Jones perceived a maturity by Jay-Z in the song, writing that "The upper-crust landmarks he now references are a far cry from the grimy Marcy Projects sights that he once detailed, something that perhaps is to be expected from the self-described 'new Sinatra'."[19] The Daily Telegraph described the song's modern sound as "anthemic club pop" on which Keys produces a "singalong" chorus.[20] Shannon Barbour of About.com called "Empire State of Mind" the album's apex, commending Keys for the "standout" aspect of the song, her "excellent display of some unusually strong vocals".[21] Slant Magazine writer William McBee described it as a "glittering paean to the Big Apple" with Keys "soaring skyscraper-level on the hook and Jay putting on for his city."[22] 
Raju Mudhar of the Toronto Star remarked "who can argue?" with the lyrics "I'm the new Sinatra/And since I made it here/I can make it anywhere/Yeah they love me everywhere", adding that Jay-Z is "one of those waffling retirees, but the man is a living hip hop legend".[23] Los Angeles Times writer Greg Kot commended Jay-Z for his ability to perform with cameos and called "Run This Town" and "Empire State of Mind" "the sound of Jay-Z cruising for pop hits."[24]
IGN music reviewer Chris Carle described Keys as having "soaring vocals" in the song.[25] New York Post writer Ryan Brockington called "Empire State of Mind" his favorite song from The Blueprint 3,[26] and Tyler Gray from the same publication said "Empire State of Mind" was the "most soulful" song on the album.[27] Francois Marchand of the Vancouver Sun called the song "shiver-inducing".[28] The Times writer Stephen Dalton called the track a "heartfelt love letter to New York City", with Jay-Z playing the "hip-hop Sinatra" over Keys' "luscious" chorus,[8] and The Guardian's Alexis Petridis described its chorus as "incredible, breezy pop".[29] Killan Fox of the same publication felt that the track was a "terrific homage" to New York and listed the song as being one of the "really good tracks" on The Blueprint 3.[30] Writing in Rolling Stone, Jody Rosen called it a "pallid New York shout-out".[31] Pitchfork's Ian Cohen stated that "the piledriver hooks of "Run This Town" and "Empire State of Mind" are content to annoy their way to ubiquity".[32]
"Empire State of Mind" has been included in multiple music critics list for the best songs of 2009. The single was ranked the 8th best song of 2009 by MTV, the second-best song of 2009 by Rolling Stone magazine, and was voted the best single of 2009 by The Village Voice's 37th annual Pazz & Jop critics' poll.[33][34][35] On the 2010 Pazz & Jop list, the song was, along with a number of other songs, ranked at 226.[36] Jon Pareles of The New York Times placed "Empire State of Mind" at number three on his list of the top songs of 2009, and Pitchfork also ranked it at number 44 on its The Top 100 Tracks of 2009 list.[37][38] Entertainment Weekly placed it number one on its list of "The 10 Best Singles of 2009".[39] "Empire State of Mind" was placed at number six on NME's Albums and Tracks of the Year, 2009 list.[40] It was placed at number nine on PopMatters's list of "The Best Singles of 2009" and at number twelve on Consequence of Sound's list of "The Top 50 Songs of '09".[41][42] The song appears at number one on Rap-Up's list of the 25 best songs of 2009.[43] It was ranked at number 14 the 2009 Pitchfork's "Song of the Year" Reader's Poll.[44] The New York Daily News included it at number ten on its list of "The 10 best songs about New York".[45]
"Empire State of Mind" was nominated for three Grammy Awards including Record of the Year. At the 53rd Grammy Awards ceremony, the song won Best Rap/Sung Collaboration and Best Rap Song.[46] In February 2011, Billboard placed the song at number 15 on its list of "The 40 Biggest Duets Of All Time" and in September 2011, the song was placed at number eight by VH1 on its list for the 100 Greatest Songs of the '00s.[47][48] In October 2011, NME placed it at number 13 on its list "150 Best Tracks of the Past 15 Years".[49] Complex placed the song at number nine on its list of "The 100 Best Jay-Z Songs" and on number four on its list of "The 25 Best Alicia Keys Songs", noting that the song "has replaced Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York" as the city's go-to anthem, and remains one of Keys' greatest contributions to pop culture".[50][51] In July 2013, PopMatters placed the song at number six on its list of "The Top 20 Jay-Z Songs to Date", remarking that "Alicia Keys' voice soars through the city night as Hov offers up his typical wit and, in this case, New York authenticity", making the song become "the unofficial anthem of the most celebrated city in the world".[52]
Jay-Z, a long-time fan of the New York Yankees, said that he was elated that his songs, namely "Empire State of Mind" and "Run This Town", had been played during different Yankee player's batting at home games in the 2009 World Series.[53] New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg commented that "Empire State of Mind" had become "one of the newest anthems of the Yankees".[54] In Summer 2012, an advertisement for New York State touting its economic comeback features the piano loop of this song along with Key's voice singing "New York".[citation needed] In summer of 2010, the New York Racing Association (NYRA) replaced Sinatra's "New York, New York" with "Empire State of Mind" as the opening song at the 142nd running of the Belmont Stakes. A NYRA official declared the song the "quintessential 21st century theme song for New York City".[55]
"Empire State of Mind" achieved commercial success worldwide. In the United States the track peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 for five consecutive weeks,[56] from November 28 to December 26, replacing "Fireflies" by Owl City for the top position and giving Jay-Z his first number one single on that chart as a lead artist in his 14-year career.[57] The song, which was both artists' fourth number one entry on the chart,[57] became the first Billboard Hot 100 number one single to reference New York in its title.[7] Moreover, it was included in Billboard's year-end music charts for 2009 at number 62[58] and was the last number one single for the 2000s (decade). According to Billboard magazine, the song was the 15th biggest hit by two recording artists for all time.[59]
The single sold 205,000 digital copies in the US in its opening week and its highest week sale was of 360,000 in December 2009.[60] "Empire State of Mind" also peaked at number one on the Billboard component chart for the sales of legal digital downloads on October 3, 2009,[61] and topped the Billboard component chart for singles with the most radio airplay throughout the country for eight consecutive weeks from November 28 to January 23, 2010.[62] The track also peaked at the top position on the R&B/Hip-Hop songs chart for three consecutive weeks,[63] as well as topping the Billboard Rap Songs chart for nine consecutive weeks.[64] After five months of release "Empire State of Mind" was certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for the shipment of over 3,000,000 units in the US. By August 2012, the single reached its 5 millionth sales mark in the US.[65] As of June 2014, the song has sold 5,513,000 copies in the US.[66]
In the United Kingdom, the track debuted at number fifteen and, in the two succeeding weeks, peaked at number two.[67][68] In May 2012, "Empire State of Mind" ranked as the 76th biggest selling single of the 21st century in the United Kingdom, as published by the Official Charts Company.[69] The song peaked at number three on the Canadian Hot 100 and was listed as being the top digital gainer on December 12.[70] The song peaked at number four in Australia,[71] and was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for the shipment of 35,000 units in the country. "Empire State of Mind" was also included in Australia's 2009 year-end music chart at number 64.[72] In New Zealand the song peaked at number six.[71] Furthermore, the single was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ) for the shipment of over 7,500 units in New Zealand. The single debuted at number 18 in France, eventually peaking at number eight in the following three weeks.[71] It also peaked at number four in Belgium's Flemish and French charts.[71] The song also peaked within the top 10 positions in the music charts of Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Finland, the Netherlands, and Sweden.[71] In Italy, "Empire State of Mind" was certified multi-platinum.[73] "Empire State of Mind"'s least commercially successful charting territories were Austria, Brazil, and Spain; peaking at number 13, 17, and 27 respectively.[71][74] The song was featured in trailers for the film Sex and the City 2.[75]
The music video for "Empire State of Mind" was directed by Hype Williams.[76] The video, which was filmed on location, features black-and-white images of New York City intercut with full-color shots of Jay-Z and Keys performing in Times Square.[76] "Empire State of Mind"'s music video began filming on September 29, in Tribeca and around Ground Zero,[76] and was released on October 30, 2009. Keys praised the music video and said that the video has all the key elements of a homage to her hometown.[76]
The music video opens with black and white images of locations in New York being shown in the form of a slideshow. The slideshow is then intercut with a black and white clip of Jay-Z, wearing a Yankees cap and a vest with no sleeves, performing the song on a street in front of apartment buildings. Then the video begins to rotate from images of New York being shown briefly, to clips of Jay-Z singing "Empire State of Mind" in several locations with different outfits. Images shown include a monument to John D. Rockefeller Jr., street signs and stairwells leading to subway stations.
The video then shows black and white clips of Keys, who is wearing large hoop-earrings with high heels, a black shirt and pants, playing a Yamaha piano that has an image of the Statue of Liberty on it. She is singing her verse of the song in a street at night while cars drive by. Keys' performance is then intercut with aerial views of skyscrapers and clips of the Yankee Stadium, clips of the New York City Police Department (NYPD), and NYPD cars and logos. Some people, such as ones who are walking around New York or wearing Yankee emblems, have their faces shown or blurred out. Keys and Jay-Z, both wearing sunglasses at night, are then shown performing the song together as the video continues to be intercut with clips of them performing "Empire State of Mind" individually, as well as images of New York. The video ends with color vision of the duo performing at night on the red glass steps forming the roof of the TKTS pavilion in Times Square. Interspersed are clips of Keys playing piano and views of the New York skyline.
Jay-Z's Lifestyle blog came out with an alternative video which features fashion models lip-syncing to the song in various locations in Manhattan.[77][78] The video was directed by Justin Wu.[79] Drew Grant, a contributor to The New York Observer, expressed uncertainty regarding the promotional message conveyed by the video. However, Grant acknowledged the remarkable ubiquity of the cast members, highlighting the impressive presence they collectively brought to the production.[80] A blogger on Yahoo Music commented that the models "do a better job modeling clothes than miming Jigga", but concluded, however, that the video is "without a doubt the greatest lip-dub ever committed to video".[81]
"Empire State of Mind" was first performed at Jay-Z's "Answer the Call" benefit concert in Madison Square Garden on September 11, 2009,[82] where it was the opening song.[83] All ticket proceeds from the show went to the New York Police and Fire Widows and Children's Fund.[83] The song was then performed live at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards (MTV VMA) on September 13, 2009, where it closed the awards show.[84] The VMA performance was the first time Jay-Z and Keys performed the song together.[82] Shaheem Redi of MTV News commented on the performance that, "Their set was elegant and 'hood at the same time, and it was such a powerful moment".[85] Ryan Brockington of the New York Post wrote "Alicia's buttery voice and Jay-Z's impeccable stage presence made for an audio adrenaline overload" and placed the performance third on his list of the "top six performances" from the MTV VMAs.[26] For the performance Jay-Z wore his signature Yankees cap[82] and Keys wore all black while playing the piano. During the MTV VMA performance images of locations in New York, such as the Empire State Building and the Apollo Theatre, were shown on an overhead screen behind Jay-Z and Keys. Towards the end of the performance rapper Lil Mama got up onto the stage uninvited and posed with Jay-Z and Keys while they were finishing the final verse of the track.[86] Lil' Mama said she did not mean to disrespect either performer but the song had her "emotions running high", adding that "in that moment I came up onstage to celebrate my two icons singing about NY."[84] Keys responded to the incident saying "We can appreciate her being overwhelmed and inspired, but we would have appreciated it if she would have done it from her seat", and Jay-Z added, "It was a lot of planning that went into that performance. To disrupt that was outta line."[87] Leah Greenblatt of Entertainment Weekly said that the duo "brought some genuine street heat to the tongue-twisting torrents" of "Empire State of Mind". She added that "Keys, on piano and soaring chorus, brought the feminine strength and soul."[88]
Jay-Z was due to perform "Empire State of Mind" with Keys during the opening game of the 2009 World Series in early October 2009 but, due to an inclement weather, the duo did not perform.[89] They ultimately performed the song live at Yankee Stadium before Game 2 of the 2009 World Series in mid-October.[90][91] The two musicians performed the song on a custom-made stage adorned with Yankees flags,[90] while images of New York City flashed across several large screens throughout the stadium.[91] Jayson Rodriguez of MTV News wrote of the performance, "If the Yankees were looking to change their tune heading into Game 2 of the World Series, they couldn't have picked better musical guests."[91] During most live performances of the track, the lyrics containing profanity are included in the song, but they were omitted for the World Series set.[11][12] On November 5, 2009, Jay-Z and Keys sang "Empire State of Mind" at the MTV Europe Music Awards (EMA) in Berlin, Germany, while performing in front of a New York cityscape.[92] Jocelyn Vena and Eric Ditzian of MTV News noted that Jay-Z "took his hometown pride rather seriously" during the performance.[92] Jay-Z also performed the song at the Yankees' World Series victory ceremonies in New York City Hall on November 6, 2009. Keys was not in attendance for the performance, so singer and Roc Nation recording artist Bridget Kelly filled in.[54] As the last verse of the song was sung, Yankee members got up from their seats to shower Jay-Z with handshakes and hugs.[54]
The single was also performed by Jay-Z and Keys at the American Music Awards (AMA) on November 22, 2009.[93] They began their performance of "Empire State of Mind" with a rendition of Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York".[93] Keys played on a piano on a stage with blue lights in front of a backdrop that had tall buildings. Also, the words "New York" scrolled across screens on the stage.[94] Towards the end of the song, Keys sang with Jay-Z at the front of the stage while holding up an "I love you" sign.[94] Todd Martens of the Los Angeles Times felt that the song had "worn out its welcome", adding: "Yes, we know New York is cool. Bars are open late and the public transportation is swell and all, but performing this love letter to New York in Los Angeles? We're tired of it."[95] However, Jeremy Blacklow of Access Hollywood had a more positive feeling towards the performance, describing it as being "so great" in his live blog for the award ceremony.[96] "Empire State of Mind" was performed by Jay-Z and Alicia Keys at the 2010 BRIT Awards on February 16, 2010.[97] The Guardian wrote that Jay-Z and Alicia Keys "dazzled with their rendition of "Empire State of Mind"".[98] According to Metro, Jay-Z and Alicia Keys "blew the place away" with their performance and "Jay-Z was given a welcome befitting a cultural hero" while "Keys oozed elegance and soul as her startlingly powerful voice stopped everyone in their tracks".[99] The Nation opined that the pair "delivered a powerful rendition" of the song.[100]
In March, Jay-Z joined Keys onstage during one of her Freedom Tours New York concerts to perform "Empire State of Mind", while images of New York were shown throughout the concert arena.[101] Jay-Z performed "Empire State of Mind" as well as three of his other singles, at California's Coachella Music Festival in April 2010.[102] Jay-Z performed the song live on an episode of Saturday Night Live on May 9, 2010. Jay-Z performed the song with a medley of his other singles, including "On to the Next One".[103][104] Jay-Z wore a white T-shirt with a black leather vest while performing the song on a stage light by blue lights, with musicians playing instruments in the far back. Caitlyn Millat of San Diego's NBC felt that Jay-Z "brought the house down" during his performances of the melodies.[103] Rodriguez of MTV News said that Bridget Kelly, who sang Keys' part, "turned more than a few heads" because the outfit she was wearing was "tighter than her boss' rhyme".[105]
Jay-Z and Keys performed the song during Keys' Here in Times Square concert special, televised on BET.[106][107]
Following the release of "Empire State of Mind" in January 2010, Keys stated that she was planning to release a second version of the song as a single the following month, featuring only her vocals.[108] The track, entitled "Empire State of Mind (Part II) Broken Down", appeared on Keys' fourth studio album The Element of Freedom which was released in December 2009. The original version, entitled "Empire State of Mind Part 2", included both Keys' vocals and a new rap verse from Jay-Z,[109] but the final product did not include Jay-Z.[110] Discussing the record, Keys said that it acts as a dichotomy of strength and vulnerability, commenting that "The music is really strong, and the drums are really aggressive, but my voice is vulnerable and delicate".[108]
So I definitely wanted to give my version of it and my vision of how I see New York and how it feels to me. I wanted to do it for my style – more broken down, more on piano, more voice and intimacy – so that's what I did. I imagined, 'If I was able to sing this whole song, how would I do it?' So I just sat down at my piano and I kind of broke it down and started singing about New York as I see it, and it turned out great."Empire State of Mind (Part II) Broken Down" was generally well received by contemporary music critics in their reviews for The Element of Freedom.[113][114][115] Allison Stewart of The Washington Post noted that the track, which is a pop ballad, had replaced "Empire State of Mind" sports team references and ruminations with "even milder and less controversial string of generalities", highlighting Keys' version's lyrics "If I could make it here/I could make it anywhere".[116] The song peaked at number four in the United Kingdom,[117] number forty on the Canadian Hot 100,[118] and number sixty-nine in Sweden.[119] It also debuted on the Billboard R&B charts at number seventy-seven and peaked at number fifty-five on the Billboard Hot 100 without an official release.[120]
Comedy website CollegeHumor parodied the song in a video titled "Galactic Empire State of Mind" which re-writes the lyrics to follow the events of the first three Star Wars films from the perspective of Darth Vader.[121] The video has been viewed nearly four million times on YouTube.[122]
The music video for "Newport (Ymerodraeth State of Mind)" parodies the song, replacing references to the "Empire State" of New York with of the smaller Welsh city of Newport. In the Welsh language Ymerodraeth means "empire". "Newport (Ymerodraeth State of Mind)" was directed by British filmmaker MJ Delaney and featured London-based actors Alex Warren and Terema Wainwright, rapping and singing respectively.[123] Days after its release Delaney said: "I hope Jay-Z and Alicia get to see the video as long as their publishing people don't force us to take it offline. It's only tongue in cheek."[124] Its participants were invited to appear on national television news and their work was reported in national newspapers. Their work was also so well received in Wales that they were invited to the reopening of the Newport Transporter Bridge.[124] It achieved viral video status when it reached nearly a million hits in 3 days and, by August 2010, nearly 2.5 million people had watched it on YouTube.[124] In July both Warren and Wainwright met with Universal Records (the music publishers)[125] to discuss releasing the track as a single, with some of the proceeds going to the mental health charity Newport Mind. But the seven co-writers of "Empire State of Mind" refused to give permission for the Newport single, a situation which led to the video being removed from YouTube on August 10.[126]
"Empire State of Mind" was covered by the cast of the US television series Glee for the second season premiere episode "Audition" on September 21, 2010. In the episode the fictional William McKinley High School glee club, upon learning that Nationals will be held in New York, decide to perform "Empire State of Mind" at the school courtyard, in the hopes it will pique the interest of their schoolmates. MTV's Kyle Anderson felt that the choreography of "Empire State of Mind" compensated for any awkwardness in its delivery.[127] Aly Semigran, also writing for the same publication, thought the cast's performance was lacking the gravitas of the original version, but reported that Keys had deemed the Glee cover "amazing".[128] Lisa de Moraes of The Washington Post found the song's performance to be "maybe-trying-too-hard".[129] Music critic Tom Stack, of Entertainment Weekly, had a more positive assessment of Glee's take on it in the episode, stating that from the wardrobe to the choreography, it was "spectacular" and elating. He gave it a letter grade of "A".[130] MTV Buzzworthy wrote that "[t]hings get a little dicey when the male cast members make their way through Jay's rapped first verse".[131] Glee's cover version was released as a single and debuted at number twenty-one on the Billboard Hot 100, taking the title for biggest jump of that week.[132] It also charted number twenty in Australia.[133]
In 2010, American alternative dance band LCD Soundsystem played "Empire State of Mind" in concert, performing a verse of the song as a duet between James Murphy and keyboardist Nancy Whang.[134][135] In May 2011, at 64th Cannes Film Festival, British singer-songwriter Jamie Cullum performed a piano medley of Frank Sinatra's "New York, New York" and "Empire State of Mind" in honour of Robert De Niro.[136][137] In February 2012, British singer Ed Sheeran did a soulful acoustic rendition of the song at BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge.[138] Sheeran later sang it as a duet with Jason Mraz at the Jingle Ball Viewing Party in December 2012.[139] In April 2012, British glam rock band Sweet released an updated version of the Hello and Ace Frehley hit single "New York Groove" that incorporated the chorus of "Empire State of Mind" into its own chorus.[140]

* Sales figures based on certification alone.^ Shipments figures based on certification alone.‡ Sales+streaming figures based on certification alone.
State Route 607State Route 607 (SR 607) in the U.S. state of Virginia is a secondary route designation applied to multiple discontinuous road segments among the many counties. The list below describes the sections in each county that are designated SR 607.
Alice Esme Levine (born 8 July 1986)[2] is an English radio and television presenter and narrator.
Levine was born in Beeston, Nottinghamshire.[3] Her father is a retired lecturer at the University of Nottingham.[citation needed] Her mother is a caterer and former artist.[citation needed] She attended Alderman White School in Bramcote.[citation needed]
Levine studied English at the University of Leeds, where she met Jamie Morton and James Cooper, her collaborators on My Dad Wrote a Porno.[1] She played an active part in Leeds Student Television, the university's TV station.[3]
Levine was voted "Best On-Screen Female" at the National Student Television Awards in 2008.[4] Her first television job was hosting Celebrity Bites for MTV, which later led to other shows including coverage of their Europe Music Awards. 
Levine hosted Big Brother's Bit on the Side with Jamie East, from the reality show's revival in 2011 on Channel 5, until 2013 when they left the show. During this time, she was one of the voices of "Big Brother" herself, which included talking to housemates in the diary room and announcing tasks and news to the housemates. She also has worked on Channel 4's Pop Up Pop Quiz. In 2012, Levine appeared on Channel 4's 8 Out of 10 Cats.
On 7 January 2013, Levine joined BBC Radio 1 to present a show with Phil Taggart in the much coveted John Peel slot. The show was broadcast from 10pm to midnight on Mondays to Thursdays.[5] She hosted Lovebox coverage for Xbox. The same year, she was a presenter on the Red Bull Soap Box Race on Dave TV. In October 2013 she appeared on Nevermind the Buzzcocks on BBC2 on Noel Fielding's team. In August 2014, she left her weeknight slot with Taggart to present a solo weekend afternoon show on the station (1pm–4pm) taking over from Huw Stephens.[6] In 2014, she hosted the Barclaycard Mercury Music Sessions for Channel 4, as well as coverage of the Mercury Music Prize later that year.
On 16 November 2014, it was announced that Levine, along with several other celebrities and the choirmaster Gareth Malone had reached Number 1 in the UK music chart with their cover version of Avicii's "Wake Me Up" in aid of the charity Children In Need.[citation needed]
She is one of the three co-creators of the podcast My Dad Wrote a Porno.[7]
In February 2017, as well as in 2018 and 2019, Levine presented backstage at the BRIT Awards for ITV2. She was also the red carpet and backstage host for the BAFTA Craft Awards, followed by the BAFTA TV Awards in May the same year. Levine presented Levine on Love, a series on BBC iPlayer in which she explored the world of modern romance. She also appeared in the fifth series of Alan Davies: As Yet Untitled for Dave.[citation needed]
In 2018, Levine was one of five contestants in the sixth series of the comedy game show Taskmaster on Dave. She appeared in series 7 of Room 101 on BBC2. Levine also co-hosted a series of Channel 4's reality show, The Circle, with Maya Jama. However, they were replaced in the second series by Emma Willis.[citation needed]
In 2019, Levine visited Tallinn in Travel Man for Channel 4, as well as presenting Sleeping with the Far Right, also for Channel 4. Levine has hosted the Women in Music Awards for seven years running as of 2022.[8]
In addition to her broadcast work, Levine co-founded a food and lifestyle brand, Jackson & Levine, with business partner Laura Jackson. As a pair, they are the food columnists for Marie Claire, take part in the monthly column, the Food Club with Jackson for Company magazine,[9] and have published a book. Levine has designed three blouses for Finery and designed two ranges for Habitat under Jackson & Levine; the first range was a linen collection followed by a ceramics range which sold out within three hours.[citation needed]
On 15 July 2020, Levine announced that she was leaving Radio 1 after nine years at the station. She revealed the news via an Instagram post.[10] Her last show was on 9 August 2020 after a series of three farewell shows.
In August 2020, it was announced that Levine would become curator of a BBC Radio 4 programme The Museum of Curiosity and co-host alongside John Lloyd, its chief host. Series 15 of the show aired from September to October 2020.[11]
In February 2021, Channel 4 announced a new series called Sex Odyssey, which would be presented by Levine. Among the producers was documentary maker Louis Theroux.[12][13] Later retitled Sex Actually with Alice Levine, it began airing on 22 September 2021.[14] A second series began airing on 27 February 2023.[15]
Levine began hosting two podcasts in 2021. In April 2021, Levine began hosting Wondery true crime podcast British Scandal with Matt Forde.[16] The series was nominated for Best Entertainment Podcast and won The Spotlight Award at the British Podcast Awards in 2022.[17] In June 2021, Very Modern Quests, a role-playing comedy podcast presented by Levine was released as an Audible Original.[18] The series featured participants such as Greg James, Joe Lycett and Phil Wang.
In 2008, Levine won the National Student Television Award for "Best On-Screen Female."[3]
As the co-creator and presenter of My Dad Wrote a Porno, Levine has received many awards and nominations, dubbed the "most successful podcast in British history."[19] The series received nominations at the Audio and Radio Industry Awards, Lovie Awards and British Podcast Awards, as well as winning a Webby Award in 2019.[20][21]
Levine was in a relationship with guitarist Edward Ibbotson of indie rock band Life in Film between 2014 and 2017.[22][23]
We Never Learn is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Taishi Tsutsui. It was launched in the 10th issue of Shueisha's Weekly Shōnen Jump magazine on February 6, 2017.[1] Viz Media announced their license of the manga for English release in North America in April 2017, and serialized it digitally in their Weekly Shonen Jump magazine.[2]
Shingo Kunieda defeated the two-time defending champion Alfie Hewett[1] in the final, 6–3, 3–6, 7–6(7–3) to win the men's singles wheelchair tennis title at the 2020 US Open. It was his seventh US Open singles title and 24th major singles title overall.
The 2019 season was Djurgårdens IF's 119th in existence, their 64th season in Allsvenskan and their 19th consecutive season in the league. They competed in Allsvenskan and the 2018–19 and 2019–20 editions of the Svenska Cupen.
Djurgården secured their 12th league title, and the first in 14 years, with a 2–2 draw away at IFK Norrköping in the last league game of the season after being down 0–2 at half-time, in a league battle that also featured Malmö FF and Hammarby IF all the way to the final day.
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Last updated: 2 November 2019.
Source: See Results

Group Stages take place during the 2020 season.
This article provides a list of the maritime ports and harbours of Turkmenistan.


This Turkmenistan-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Gösta Elof Rune Wenzel (4 January 1901 – 29 July 1977) was a Swedish footballer. He represented GAIS and IFK Göteborg during a career that spanned between 1918 and 1932, winning three Swedish Championships with the former.[1][2] He played in 30 matches for the Sweden national football team from 1919 to 1930.[3] He was also part of Sweden's squad for the football tournament at the 1920 Summer Olympics, but he did not play in any matches.[4]
Wenzel was the younger brother of Gunnar Wenzel, who was also a footballer for IFK Göteborg.[5]
GAIS[8]
Individual
This biographical article related to Swedish football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Palatogobius grandoculus is a species of marine fish in the family Gobiidae and the order Gobiiformes. Its name comes from the Latin word palatum (palate) which pertains to palate and its teeth which form there, plus the Latin word gobius, which means goby. The species name grandoculus (from the Latin words grand and oculus) refers to this species' very large eyes.[3][4] Specimens of P. grandoculus were collected as early as 1976, and originally described as the Mauve Goby, however it was not formally identified as a separate species and described until 2002.[2]
Members of this species reach 3.2 cm (1.3 in) total length, and have 27 vertebra.[5] Their dorsal fins contain only 8 spines but 17–18 soft rays. Similarly, their anal fins have only one spine, but 18–19 soft rays.[5]
Overall, this species is very similar in appearance to its relative, the Mauve goby (Palatogobius paradoxus), however P. grandoculus has a much larger eye and shorter snout than P. paradoxus, as well as a much narrower band of skull between the orbits.[5] Its body scales also extend forward on the sides, past the origin of the first dorsal fin, while other members of its genus have scales which only extend to beneath the second dorsal fin.[5]
P. grandoculus is found in marine waters and lives at depths between 253 and 276 meters (830 to 905 feet).[6] It can be encountered in the western Caribbean Sea, especially near Mexico and was originally collected near Cancún.[7] It lives near the sea bed and can be found above coral fragments or sandy bottoms.[8]
The Shirley Jackson Awards are literary awards named after Shirley Jackson in recognition of her legacy in writing. These awards for outstanding achievement in the literature of psychological suspense, horror and dark fantasy are presented at Readercon, an annual conference on imaginative literature.[1]
Writing in Salon in 2010, Laura Miller noted, "The awards are only three years old, but have already proved a fitting tribute to a writer who roamed freely over similar ground and has never quite gotten the respect she deserves."[2]
Award-winners are selected by a jury of professional writers, editors, critics and academics, with input from a Board of Advisors. The awards are given for the best work published in the preceding calendar year in the following categories: Novel, Novella, Novelette, Short Story, Single-Author Collection and Edited Anthology.
The first annual Shirley Jackson Awards were presented July 20, 2007, at the Readercon Conference on Imaginative Literature in Burlington, Massachusetts. The jurors were John Langan, Sarah Langan, Paul G. Tremblay and F. Brett Cox, who now form the Board of Directors along with JoAnn Cox.
Hopewell Township is a township in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 2,329 at the 2010 census,[4] up from 2,096 at the 2000 census.
The Ramp Covered Bridge was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.[5]
Hopewell Township is in the northwestern corner of Cumberland County, bordered to the north by Perry County and to the west by Franklin County. The crest of Blue Mountain forms the Perry County boundary. The township surrounds the borough of Newburg, a separate municipality. Conodoguinet Creek flows from southwest to northeast across the southern part of the township.
Interstate 76, the Pennsylvania Turnpike, crosses the northern part of the township from east to west, with access from Exit 201 just to the west in Lurgan Township, Franklin County. From Exit 201 it is 43 miles (69 km) east to Harrisburg, the state capital, and 161 miles (259 km) west to Pittsburgh.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 27.8 square miles (72.1 km2), of which 27.7 square miles (71.7 km2) is land and 0.15 square miles (0.4 km2), or 0.56%, is water.[4]
As of the census[6] of 2000, there were 2,096 people, 688 households, and 601 families residing in the township.  The population density was 74.6 inhabitants per square mile (28.8/km2).  There were 706 housing units at an average density of 25.1/sq mi (9.7/km2).  The racial makeup of the township was 97.95% White, 0.72% African American, 0.52% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 0.14% from other races, and 0.62% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.72% of the population.
There were 688 households, out of which 40.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 78.2% were married couples living together, 5.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 12.6% were non-families. 10.2% of all households were made up of individuals, and 4.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 3.02 and the average family size was 3.23.
In the township the population was spread out, with 29.8% under the age of 18, 7.9% from 18 to 24, 27.7% from 25 to 44, 24.1% from 45 to 64, and 10.5% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 35 years. For every 100 females there were 99.1 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 98.2 males.
The median income for a household in the township was $44,118, and the median income for a family was $47,143. Males had a median income of $31,094 versus $24,583 for females. The per capita income for the township was $18,114.  About 3.8% of families and 6.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 8.6% of those under age 18 and 7.0% of those age 65 or over.
40°07′25″N 77°30′59″W﻿ / ﻿40.12361°N 77.51639°W﻿ / 40.12361; -77.51639
Touch Compass is a professional inclusive dance company in Aotearoa New Zealand established in 1997 that has disabled and non-disabled dancers.[1][2][3][4] They have been at the forefront of inclusive dance in New Zealand and have 'paved the way for many dancers and companies across the country.'[1] They create contemporary dance, dance-theatre performance and film. They also have an education programme and have run workshops, community classes and education for schools.[5]
Touch Compass was established in 1997 and has been a registered charity under the name The Touch Compass Dance Trust Board since 2008.[5] They are based in Auckland.[5]

Their mission statement includes:Our mission is to explore the intersection of disability, Māori and Pasifika culture as our unique contribution to the arts. Our performances reflect disability aesthetics and practices that are culturally informed. They are interdisciplinary but rooted in movement practice and choreographic forms. We explore cultural diversity through authentic and multi-dimensional performance.[6]Touch Compass recognise principles of Te Tiriti O Waitangi and in 2019 the organisation after a review made an agreement to 'move to a disability-led business model, in which artists with disabilities hold leadership positions'.[7]
Founder of Touch Compass and director for over 20 years is Catherine Chappell.[8]  Chappell brought with her a background in contact improvisation and from the first performance the company created work that involved aerial techniques, with performers suspended above the stage. During her directorship many new works were brought to New Zealand and international stages.[9]
Chappell left at the end of 2019 and Pelenakeke Brown was appointed as interim director. Brown had been in the company when she was young from 1997 to 2000.[10][11][7]  Brown is an interdisciplinary artist with a disability who had been based in New York for six years. Brown is of Samoan and Pākehā heritage.[7] In 2021 Rodney Bell, Suzanne Cowan and Lusi Faiva were appointed to the Artistic Direction Panel.[12] Rodney Bell was introduced to dance by Chappell. He was another dancer that left and came back as he was also a founding dancer. After several years with Touch Compass in 2007 he went to California and joined AXIS Dance Company where he created acclaimed work.[13] Lusi Faiva was also a founding dancer of Touch Compass, and has featured in and developed lots of work with the company included her solo Lusi's Eden.[8]
The first work programmed by Bell, Cowan and Faiva on the new Artistic Development Panel was the 25th Anniversary performing arts festival hybrid-event that took place on 15 February 2022 called /rītaha/.[14] 
People the company has collaborated with include BodyCartography Project's Olive Bieringa and Otto Ramstad, composer Claire Cowen,[15] choreographers Carol Brown and Sarah Foster Sproull.[16][17]
Touch Compass dancers over time have included Alex Smithson, Duncan Armstrong, Tess Connell, Rodney Bell, Suzanne Cowan, Lusi Faiva, Daniel King and Julia Milsom.[15][16][18] The dancer Jesse Johnstone-Steele won the Arts Access PAK’nSAVE Artistic Achievement Award at the Te Putanga Toi Arts Access Awards in 2018. He has been 17 Touch Compass seasons.[19]
Lusi’s Eden[20] first performed 2001, remount 2002 and for Touch Compass’ tenth birthday celebrations 2007[21]
Lighthouse[20]
DanceBox - short film series[20]
Triple Bill [22]
Acquisitions (2015) - multi-media contemporary dance[15]
Somatechnics (2017) - with dancers Lusi Faiva, Rodney Bell, Alisha McLennan Marler, Julie Van Renen and Duncan Armstrong.[23]
I’mPaired (2019) - with a programme of work including Clasp!, (co-creators Alisha McLennan Marler & Georgie Goater, performers, Alisha McLennan Marler, Julie Van Rennen), Drift (film), (choreographer Sarah Foster Sproull, performers Julie Van Rennen, Rodney Bell), The Language of Colour, (by dancer Julie Van Rennen and artist Yung Chen), Rhythms of Sameness, (performers Duncan Armstrong and Mabingo Alfdaniels), and duets by Touch Compass's hip hop crew Integr8.[17]
Iskandar Puteri (formerly known as Nusajaya) is a city and the administrative capital of the state of Johor, Malaysia (Kota Iskandar). It represents the seat of government of the state of Johor (Executive branch & Legislative branch).[3][4] Situated along the Straits of Johor at the southern end of the Malay Peninsula, it is also the southernmost city in Peninsular Malaysia.
Together with the adjacent cities of Johor Bahru (the official state capital of Johor) and Pasir Gudang, the three adjoining cities are commonly located within the Johor Bahru District. They anchor Malaysia's third largest urban agglomeration namely Iskandar Malaysia, with a population of 2.2 million (As of August 2020[update]).[5]
Historically, the area surrounding present-day Iskandar Puteri consisted mostly of fishing villages, populated by Malays and Orang Laut tribes. Located at the western side of the Tebrau Strait, the area was once known as Sempit Puteri (lit. narrow princess) as it was facing the narrowest point of the Tebrau Straits.
In 1855, when Temenggong Daeng Ibrahim won his claim over the Johor throne, he relocated the capital city of the now-divided kingdom from Telok Blangah (Singapore) to Tanjung Puteri and renamed it as Iskandar Puteri.[6] The name, however, proved to be short-lived when his son Maharaja Abu Bakar, the first Sultan of Modern Johor, renamed Tanjung Puteri as Johor Bahru upon his coronation as the Maharaja of Johor in 1868 to distinguish his dynasty from the old Sultanate of Johor.[7]
During Maharaja Abu Bakar's reign, Jaafar Muhammad was appointed as the first Menteri Besar of Johor. According to a story from Yayasan Warisan Johor, during his journey to Sempit Puteri, the paddle of the sampan that Dato Jaafar was boarding broke. That event gave the place its new name Gelang Patah (lit. broken paddle). 
As many as eight local councils (majlis tempatan) were set up in the 1950s and 1960s to oversee municipal works in the area.[8] The smaller local councils were merged in March 1978 and replaced by the Central Johor Bahru District Council (Majlis Daerah Johor Bahru Tengah, MDJBT), as the local authority in Johor Bahru's western and northern suburban areas, while MBJB administers downtown Johor Bahru. MDJBT was granted municipal status in 2001.
In 1993, during the leadership of the fourth Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, a plan for a second bridge connecting the Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore was brought forward by Halim Saad, who at the time was known as a successful young entrepreneur who built the Malaysia longest highway, North-South Expressway, and apprentice to the former Minister of Finance Daim Zainuddin. The cabinet approved the project as the traffic at the then Johor Causeway was already over-congested. The new bridge had been connected from the NSE via Second Link to Jurong East of Singapore. His past experience enabled Halim to secure financing from Bank for Renong Berhad (now UEM Group) to acquire vast land along with the Second Link for his ambitious new township which later known as Nusajaya. The Nusajaya name was given by former Menteri Besar of Johor, Muhyiddin Yassin.
UEM Group through its subsidiary UEM Land (now UEM Sunrise) continue to develop Nusajaya as the new city centre of Johor. A new administrative centre, Kota Iskandar was developed by Cahaya Jauhar in Nusajaya based on the Federal Government administrative centre at Putrajaya as a catalyst to Nusajaya development. This is followed by the introduction of Iskandar Malaysia, Iskandar Regional Development Authority and Iskandar Investment Board to regulate and promote the development growth in Nusajaya. In 2008, the Johor State Parliement was moved from Sultan Ibrahim Building in Johor Bahru to Sultan Ismail Building in Kota Iskandar. Several other catalyst development were later added to Nusajaya. Among them are Legoland Malaysia Resort, Puteri Harbour and Pinewood Malaysia Studio (now, Iskandar Malaysia Studio) and Southern Industrial And Logistics Clusters (SiLC). A new city, Medini was also developed as the capital for Nusajaya. UEM also sold part of Nusajaya land to the other developer including Syed Mokhtar Albukhary's Tradewind, SP Setia (Bukit Indah & Setia Eco Garden), Ecoworld (Eco Botanic), and Sunway Group (Sunway Iskandar) to expedite the development of Nusajaya.
In January 2016, Nusajaya was renamed to its former prestigious name, Iskandar Puteri by Sultan Ibrahim, current Sultan of Johor. Johor Bahru Tengah Municipal Council was upgraded to Iskandar Puteri City Council on 22 November 2017.[1][citation needed]
Iskandar Puteri is Johor's second city, and Malaysia's 14th.[9] It administered by the Iskandar Puteri City Council. It houses Kota Iskandar, the administrative centre for the government of Johor State. It houses the Johor State Legislative Assembly and Johor Chief Minister's Office. Mahkota Square also located here.[10]
Due to electoral division by Election Commission of Malaysia, there are four parliamentary and eight state constituencies (DUN) dividing Iskandar Puteri area. There are (P161) Pulai parliamentary seat, (N46) and (P162) Iskandar Puteri parliamentary seat. Eight state seats are  Perling state seat;(N48) Skudai state seat and (N49) Kota Iskandar state seat along with partial Kulai (Bukit Batu for Ulu Choh and Senai for UTM) and Tebrau (Puteri Wangsa for Maju Jaya).
Iskandar Puteri consists of 11 administrative zones:[11]
Iskander Puteri is the second largest city in Johor. As of 2020, the municipal area of Iskandar Puteri has a population of 447697.[13] It ranks as the seventh most populous urban centre in Malaysia (2020).[13]
The following is based on Department of Statistics Malaysia 2020 census.[13]
EduCity is a 600-acre (2.4 km2) educational area, which consists of the University of Southampton Malaysia Campus, Newcastle University Medicine Malaysia, University of Reading, Multimedia University, Raffles University, Netherlands Maritime Institute of Technology, Management Development Institute of Singapore, Stellar International School, Marlborough College Malaysia and Raffles American School.[14] Other universities in the city are University of Technology, Malaysia and Southern University College.
Afiat Healthpark was initially developed as the medical hub for Iskandar Puteri. Columbia Asia Iskandar Puteri was the first hospital being built in the city. This was followed by Gleneagles Medini and Kensington Specialist Centre.[15]
Concurrent with the development of Iskandar Puteri, a new proposal was brought forward by the then State Secretary, Dato Ayob Mion to build a new port at the west coast of Johor. The new port, Port of Tanjung Pelepas was developed near the Second Link and become the catalyst for industrial development at the for Tanjung Kupang area at the west of Iskandar Puteri.
Later, UEM also developed Southern Industry and Logistic Cluster (SiLC) which hosting i-Park SiLC, IBP, Bio-excell and iTech Valley. SILC also host the largest insulin producer in the world Biocon and Insulet. This is followed by Nusa Cemerlang and Nusajaya Techpark at the adjacent land at Gelang Patah.
Puteri Harbour (with a land area of 278 hectares or 688 arces) & Forest City is a marina development that spans 687 acres (2.8 km2) on the Straits of Johor. Sanrio Hello Kitty Town and Thomas Town were also located at Puteri Harbour.[16]
Legoland Malaysia is one of the main attractions of Johor state, it is a 5,500,000 sq ft (510,000 m2) integrated complex containing the Legoland Malaysia and Legoland Water Park theme parks, plus a lifestyle retail centre, offices, hotels, service apartments and residential units. The main theme park includes 70 hands-on rides, slides, shows distributed among the LEGO Technic, LEGO Kingdoms, Imagination, Land of Adventure, Lego City and Minliand areas. Another attraction is the Legoland Hotel.[17]
Shopping malls in the city are Paradigm Mall JB, B5 Johor Street Market, ÆON Bukit Indah, AEON Taman Universiti, GP Mall, Mall of Medini, Perling Mall, Sunway Big Box, Sutera Mall, Tasek Central and many more.
FASTrack City will open in 2019.[18]
In March 2019, works on a new marina in Puteri Harbour kicked off, as a joint venture between SUTL Enterprise and UEM Sunrise.[19][20] The first phase of the ONE°15 Marina Puteri Harbour[21] membership was launched in November 2020, with the opening of ONE°15 Estuari Sports Centre.[22][23] Johor Tourism, Youth and Sports Committee chairman, Datuk Onn Hafiz Bin Ghazi was the guest of honour at the opening launch. The integrated sports complex was launched with the intent to introduce a world-class sporting venue in Johor with the potential to host national and international sporting events.[24][25]
Townships such as Nusa Bayu, Gerbang Nusajaya, Setia Eco Gardens, Casa Almyra, Nusa Sentral, Taman Universiti, Nusa Indah, Taman Nusa Bestari Jaya, Bestari Heights, East Ledang, Estuari, Ledang Heights, Nusa Idaman, Nusa Bayu, Nusa Bestari, Nusa Bestari 2, Nusa Duta, Bukit Indah, Horizon Hills and Sunway Iskandar are located within this zone.[26]
The Port of Tanjung Pelepas, which ranks as Malaysia's largest container port since 2004 lies in the western side of the city. It is the 19th busiest container port in the world as of 2013[update]. Iskandar Puteri houses the Puteri Harbour International Ferry Terminal, with destinations to cities in Indonesia.[27]
The planned Kuala Lumpur–Singapore high-speed rail also will serve the city at Gerbang Nusajaya in the future.[28][29] On 29 March 2021, the unpopular Perikatan Nasional's Muhyiddin Yassin led backdoor government failed to negotiate term with Singapore and scrapped the project while compensating Singapore almost a third billion Ringgit (RM320,270,519.24), with the settlement representing the complete termination of the project and bilateral agreement.[30] The project was revived on 11th December 2023, by the His Majesty Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim ibni Sultan Iskandar prior to his ascension to the throne of Malaysian 17th Paramount Ruler.[31]
Within Johor, the Iskandar Coastal Highway and Pasir Gudang Highway links the city to Johor Bahru City, while the Tanjung Kupang Road links the city to Pontian District. The Second Link Expressway and North–South Expressway connect the city to the other states in Peninsular Malaysia.
The Malaysia–Singapore Second Link was built between Kampong Ladang at Tanjung Kupang, Johor and Jalan Ahmad Ibrahim at Tuas, Singapore. The bridge was built to reduce the traffic congestion at the Johor–Singapore Causeway and was opened to traffic on 2 January 1998. The twin-deck bridge supports a dual-three lane carriageway and its total length over water is 1,920 m.[32]
Brigid L. M. Hogan FRS is a British developmental biologist noted for her contributions to mammalian development, stem cell research and transgenic technology and techniques. She is currently a Professor in the Department of Cell Biology at Duke University,[2][3]  Born in the UK, she became an American citizen in 2000.
Hogan earned her PhD in Biochemistry at the University of Cambridge and did postdoctoral work in the Department of Biology at MIT. She was the head of the Laboratory of Molecular Embryology at the National Institute for Medical Research in London, and later Hortense B. Ingram Professor in the Department of Cell Biology and a founding director of the Stem Cell and Organogenesis Program at Vanderbilt University.[4] In 2002, she moved to Duke University.
Her work on mouse development led her to organize the first Molecular Embryology of the Mouse course at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and edit the first two editions of Manipulating the Mouse Embryo: A Laboratory Manual, considered the "Bible" of mammalian embryo manipulation techniques.
She has served as president of the American Society for Developmental Biology and the American Society for Cell Biology.  She was a member of the National Advisory Council of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Co-Chair for Science of the 1994 NIH Human Embryo Research Panel and a member of the 2001/2002 National Academies Panel on Scientific and Medical Aspects of Human Cloning. She was awarded the sixth International Society for Transgenic Technologies Prize in 2008 for "outstanding contributions to the field of transgene technologies".[5] She delivered a 2011 Martin Rodbell Lecture, hosted by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences[6] and the Croonian Lecture of the Royal Society of London in 2014.
Hogan was born in Denham, a small village near London. Both of her parents were artists.[4] As a child she faced the difficulties of post-World War II Britain. Her father, a stage designer, died in 1945 shortly after coming back from the front lines.  Her single mother, a dressmaker, raised her and her sibling. She was a support and inspiration to Hogan. The village Hogan grew up in was close to nature and fostered her love for biology. Her rational scientific thinking helped her cope with her uncertain home life. She attended a High Wycombe High School for girls, where her biology teacher mentored her as she applied to Cambridge University. She was admitted to Newnham College, Cambridge's all-women's college, where she faced negative attitudes from male faculty due to her gender, typical of the time.[7]
Since Cambridge offered no courses in cell or developmental biology at the time, Hogan did her post-doctorate work on sea urchin development with Paul Gross at MIT.  Around 1974, back in Britain, Hogan began her work on mouse embryonic stem cells at the Mill Hill Labs of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund in London under director John Cairns. Encouraged by Anne McLaren, she focused her career on mouse development and has continued on this path ever since.[7] She was the head of the Laboratory of Molecular Embryology at the Imperial Cancer Research Fund and then the National Institute of Medical Research in London. Her student, Peter Holland, became well known for his work on vertebrate evolution and was awarded the Darwin Medal of the Royal Society in 2019.
In 1988, she was recruited to Vanderbilt University Medical Center by Hal Moses. There she was a Professor of Cell Biology and Hortense B. Ingram Chair of Molecular Oncology, as well as the co-founder of the Stem Cell and Organogenesis Program.[8] From 1993–2002 she was an Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. At Vanderbilt University, she grew to appreciate the American enthusiasm towards scientific study in general and towards women in the scientific field in particular.[7]  She considers her work at Vanderbilt “one of the most productive and exciting” in her career.  She left Vanderbilt in 2002 after 13 years to head the department of Cell Biology at Duke University Medical Center, making her the first woman to chair a basic sciences department there.[8]
At Duke University, she was George Barth Geller Professor of Molecular Biology from 2002-2018 before stepping down as Chair in 2019.  She continues to plan an active role in the Cell Biology Department and the Developmental and Stem Cell training program. Her lab studied the lung, due to it developing through "branching morphogenesis".  To facilitate this, she created numerous mouse lines where genes can be manipulated in specific lung cells. She is particularly interested in the stem cells of the mouse lung as models for human lung cells that are often affected by disease.[2] She hopes to apply her research to Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, cystic fibrosis, chronic asthma, pulmonary fibrosis, and premature babies with inadequate lung development.[9]
The law in the United Kingdom on food information and labelling is multifaceted and is spread over many reforms and parliamentary acts. UK law is based on the relevant European Union rules, chiefly Regulation (EU) 1169/2011, which is implemented in the UK in the Food Information Regulations 2014,[1] the Food Information (Wales) Regulations 2014,[2] the Food Information (Scotland) Regulations 2014[3] and the Food Information Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014.[4] Regulations apply to the labelling of goods pre-packaged for sale and to the provision of information regarding non-prepacked (loose) foods.[5]
There are general rules applying to any food product:
Epitrix cucumeris, the potato flea beetle, is a species of flea beetle in the family Chrysomelidae.[1][2][3][4] It is native to North America,[1][5] and has been introduced to Portugal and Spain.[6]

This Galerucinae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Xinfengzhen railway station (Chinese: 新丰镇站) is a station in Lintong District, Xi'an, Shaanxi. The station is the main marshalling yard for Xi'an railway hub and the largest marshalling yard in western China.[1]
The station was established in 1934. It was reconstructed as a marshalling yard in 2008.

This article about a railway station in Shaanxi is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Spain women's national roller hockey team is the national team side of Spain at international roller hockey (quad). It is one of the best teams of the world and has been dominating both the Rink Hockey World Championship with a record (4 titles) and the Rink Hockey European Championship (3 titles) in the last decade.

Squad for the 2017 World Cup.
Source:[1]

This article about a Spanish sports club is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a Roller hockey team is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 1959 Curitiba riots refer to three days of violence in December 1959, primarily directed against ethnic Arab immigrants, in the southern Brazilian city of Curitiba. It began on the evening of 8 December, when a local policeman António Tavares bought a comb from the shop of Ahmed Najar, a Lebanese merchant, and asked for a tax receipt. At the time, there was a campaign called Seu Talão Vale um Milhão (Your Bead is Worth a Million) to encourage the issuance of tax receipts for retail purchases. As the cost of the comb was too low, the shopkeeper refused which led to an argument that ended with the policeman fracturing a leg. Violence soon broke out, targeted initially at the shops and businesses of "turcos" ("Turks", or ethnic minorities of Middle Eastern origin) in the Centenary Bazaar in Tiradentes Square. The bazaar was a stronghold of Syrian-Lebanese traders and merchants. By the second day, rioting spilled over into downtown and hit various public buildings such as the Parana Public Library. The violence only died down on 10 December, with the deployment of the army who reestablished order and imposed a curfew.[1][2]
Local elections were held in the Gambia on 25 April 2002.[1] The elections were the first to be under the 2002 local government act.[2][3] The elections were boycotted by the primary opposition party, the United Democratic Party.[1]
Mardi Gras is the annual Carnival celebration in Mobile, Alabama. It is the oldest official Carnival celebration in the United States, started by Frenchman Nicholas Langlois in 1703 when Mobile was the capital of Louisiana. Although today New Orleans and South Louisiana celebrations are much more widely known for all the current traditions such as masked balls, parades, floats and throws were first created there.[1][2] From Mobile being the first capital of French Louisiana (1702), the festival began as a French Catholic tradition. Mardi Gras has now evolved into a mainstream multi-week celebration across the spectrum of cultures, becoming school holidays for the final Monday and Tuesday (some include Wednesday), regardless of religious affiliation.[3][4]
Although the area has traditions of exclusive societies, with formal masked balls and elegant costumes, the celebration has evolved over the past three centuries to become typified by public parades where members of societies, often masked, on floats or horseback, toss gifts (known as throws) to the general public.  Throws include necklaces of plastic beads, doubloon coins, decorated plastic cups, candy, wrapped cakes known as Moonpies or snacks, stuffed animals, and small toys, footballs, frisbees, or whistles.[5][6]
The masked balls or dances, where non-masked men wear white tie and tails (full dress or costume de rigueur) and the women wear full length evening gowns, are oriented to adults, with some mystic societies treating the balls as an extension of the debutante season of their exclusive social circles. Various nightclubs and local bars offer their own particular events.
Beyond the public parades, Mardi Gras involves many various mystic societies, some having begun in 1704, or ending with the Civil War, while new societies were formed every century.  Some mystic societies are never seen in public parades, but rather hold invitation-only events for their secret members, with private balls beginning in November, each year.
The Mobile Mardi Gras season starts in November, with exclusive parties held by some secret mystic societies, then New Year's Eve balls.  It has become closely entwined with the social debutante season for certain families.  Other mystic societies begin their events at Twelfth Night (January 6), with parades, balls (some of them masquerade balls), and king cake parties.[7][8]
During the last two weeks before Mardi Gras, at least one major parade takes place each day in the city.[8] The largest and most elaborate parades take place the last few days of the season. In the final week of Mardi Gras, many events large and small occur throughout Mobile and the surrounding communities.
The parades in Mobile are organized mainly by mystic societies or orders.  Society float riders toss throws to the crowds.  The most common throws are strings of colorful plastic beads,[5] doubloons (aluminium or wooden dollar-sized coins usually impressed with a krewe logo),[5] wrapped candy/snacks/MoonPies,[5][6] decorated plastic throw cups, stuffed animals,[6] and other small inexpensive toys.[6]  Major krewes follow the same parade schedule and route each year.
To Mobilians, Mardi Gras refers to the entire festival season, also known as Carnival.  Local schools have multiple "Mardi Gras Holidays", which often include Ash Wednesday.[3][4][5]  Mobile's culture is diverse, and as a result the Mardi Gras season has been extended.  The area's traditions draw from all of its history, including French, Spanish, British, African, Creole, American, and even Swedish influences. The 2008 documentary The Order of Myths details the origins of Mobile Mardi Gras and highlights the differences in the mystic societies due to race and history.
A type of Mardi Gras festival was brought to Mobile by the founding French Catholic settlers of French Louisiana, as the celebration of Mardi Gras was part of preparation for Ash Wednesday and the beginning of Lent. The first record of the holiday being marked in America is on March 3, 1699, at a camp site along the Mississippi River delta.[9]  Following the construction of Fort Louis de La Louisiane in 1702, the soldiers and settlers celebrated Mardi Gras beginning in 1703. Thus started an annual tradition, only occasionally canceled because of war.[10][5]
Mardi Gras has evolved over three centuries in the Mobile area, combining tradition and culture with new ideas.  French Mardi Gras arrived in North America with the founding French settlers, the Le Moyne brothers,[10] Pierre Le Moyne d'Iberville and Jean-Baptiste Le Moyne de Bienville. In the late 17th century, King Louis XIV sent the pair to defend France's claim on the territory of La Louisiane, which included what are now the U.S. states of Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.[11]
The two explorers, arriving first at Dauphin Island in what is now Alabama, navigated the mouth of the Mississippi River (charted by Cavelier de La Salle, 1682), sailed upstream, and on March 3, 1699, celebrated, naming the spot Pointe du Mardi Gras 60 miles downriver from the wilderness that would become New Orleans.[10][9] Meanwhile, in 1702, the 21-year-old Bienville founded the settlement of Mobile (Alabama), as the first capital of French Louisiana, and in 1703, the American Mardi Gras tradition began with French annual celebrations in Mobile.[2][10][12][13][14]
The feasting and revelry on Mardi Gras in Mobile was called Boeuf Gras (fatted ox).[5]  Masked balls, with the Masque de la Mobile, began in 1704.[10] The first known parade was in 1711, when Mobile's Boeuf Gras Society paraded on Mardi Gras, with 16 men pushing a cart carrying a large papier-mâché cow's head.[2][10]
By 1720, Biloxi became the second capital of Louisiana, and also celebrated French customs.[10]  Due to fear of tides and hurricanes, in 1723, the capital was moved to New Orleans, founded in 1718.  That city also later started a Mardi Gras celebration.[10][12]
In 1763, Mobile came under British control.  Its restrictions on free blacks and racial segregation caused many Creoles to leave Mobile and move west towards New Orleans. In 1780, Spain took control of the Mobile area in the aftermath of the American Revolution.  The Carnival celebration incorporated the Spanish custom of torch-lit parades[2] on Twelfth Night (January 6, also known as Epiphany.)  In 1813, Mobile became a United States city, included in the Mississippi Territory.  In 1817 it was part of the Alabama Territory.  In the Anglican and Episcopal traditions, the day before Ash Wednesday was celebrated as Shrove Tuesday, marked by consumption of rich foods before the fasting practices of Lent.
In 1830, a group of revelers, led by Michael Krafft, who was likely influenced by his Pennsylvania Swedish traditions of celebrating the New Year, stayed awake all New Year's Eve, started a dawn parade on January 1, 1831, making noise with cowbells, hoes, and rakes.[10][15]  The group became the first parading mystic society, calling themselves the Cowbellion de Rakin Society, in a parody of French.  They had annual parades each New Year's Eve.[2][10]  Nearly 125 years after Mobile's first parade of 1711, members of the Cowbellion de Rakin Society, took their parade tradition to New Orleans in 1835, eventually forming the Mistick Krewe of Comus.[10]
In 1843, some men who had been refused membership by the Cowbellions, formed the Strikers Independent Society with their own New Year's parade.  The Boeuf Gras Society held their last procession on Shrove Tuesday in 1861, before the start of the American Civil War, and then dissolved.[2][16]
In 1867, following the end of the Civil War, Joe Cain revived the parade tradition in Mobile on Mardi Gras, riding in a decorated charcoal wagon, along with six fellow veterans.[17][2][10]  That event has celebrated annually with Joe Cain Day since 1966.[17] The Joe Cain Day parade is held on the Sunday before Mardi Gras. The event's founder, artist and historian Julian Lee "Judy" Rayford, portrayed the "Chief" and in 1970 handed the features to the third "Old Slac", fireman J. B. "Red" Foster. Foster portrayed the "Chief" until passing the features in 1985 to historian, public relations professional and pastor, Bennett Wayne Dean Sr. Dean, as Old Slac IV, celebrated his 36th year under the feathers on Joe Cain Day in 2021.
War, economic, political, and weather conditions sometimes led to cancellation of some or all major parades, especially during the Civil War and World War II.  The city has traditionally always observed some celebration of Mardi Gras.
The traditional colors of Mardi Gras in Mobile are purple and gold. Purple has been related to royal monarchies in Europe, and is the liturgical color used during Lent in Christianity. Those who celebrate Mardi Gras elsewhere now incorporate a third color, green. This is perhaps an influence from New Orleans' traditional colors of purple, green, and gold, which came from the Russian House of Romanov in 1872. They were adopted there when Grand Duke Alexis Romanoff Alexandrovitch, brother of the heir apparent to the throne of Russia, accepted New Orleans's invitation to attend Mardi Gras, with festivities in his honor.[11]
The first mystic society began in Mobile in 1704, with the Societé de Saint Louise.  It was founded by French soldiers at Fort Louis de La Louisiane.[10]  The annual Masque de la Mobile was started in the same year.[10]  In 1830, a group celebrating with an early morning parade, later known as the Cowbellion de Rakin Society held what became considered the first parade in Mobile society; in the early years for Christmas and New Year, unrelated to Mardi Gras.[17]
Dozens of mystic societies have come and gone over the past three centuries in Mobile.  Membership has been formed by affiliated groups such as co-workers, bachelors, women, blacks, black women, Jews, married women, married couples, or open membership, including visitors.[17]  There are currently more than 40 mystic societies in Mobile.[17] Because many are run as secret societies, their impact on Mobile politics, business affairs, and Carnival activities is difficult to determine, but they have been another avenue of social and political influence.
Today, many mystic societies operate under a business structure; membership is basically open to anyone who pays dues to have a place on a parade float. In contrast, the traditional mystic societies were social clubs with secret membership lists.  Divulging one's membership in a society can be grounds for dismissal.  Some of the newer mystic societies actively recruit prospective members.  Some of the older societies have restricted membership, with waiting lists numbering in the hundreds; others restrict members to alumni of particular schools, or other conventions.
The oldest continuously parading society in Mobile is the Order of Myths (OOM), founded in 1867.[17]  Its emblem consists of "Folly" chasing "Death" around the broken pillar of life, a symbol of Mardi Gras in Mobile.  Other notable mystic societies include the Knights of Revelry (with their emblem as "Folly" dancing on the rim of a huge champagne glass), the Comic Cowboys of Wragg Swamp, Infant Mystics, Mystics of Time, Crewe of Columbus, Mystic Stripers Society, Order of Inca and Conde Cavaliers.  Ladies' societies include the Order of Polka Dots (OOP), the oldest and largest of the Mobile ladies' societies, Maids of Mirth (MOM), Order of LaShe's, Order of Athena, Neptune's Daughters and Mobile Area Mardi Gras Association (MAMGA).
Each year, the Mardi Gras (or Carnival) season starts with three major events: the November parties of the International Carnival Ball and the Camellia Ball where the city's debutantes are presented,[8] New Year's Eve and January 6, also known as Twelfth Night or the Feast of the Epiphany.  In Mobile, the parade season generally starts three weekends before Mardi Gras Day with the Conde Cavaliers parade.
Starting two Fridays before Mardi Gras, there is usually at least one parade every night.  The Wednesday before Mardi Gras is reserved as a "rain out" day in case one or more of the earlier parades are affected by weather.
Multiple parades lead up to Mardi Gras day.  On the Sunday before Fat Tuesday, Joe Cain Day celebrations are held.  In recent years these have included a jogger's run and the Joe Cain Procession, also known as the people's parade. Joining the Joe Cain Procession does not require membership in a mystic society. However, participants must now sign up with the city, due to unsafe numbers of people participating in past years.  The parade is always led by Chief Slacabamorinico, currently personified by only the fourth person in the city's long-Carnival history to wear the features of the "Chief". He is surrounded by the Mistresses of Joe Cain clad in red veils and dresses, followed by Cain's Merry Widows wailing in black mourning attire.
The Monday before Ash Wednesday is known as "Lundi Gras" ("Fat Monday"), after the French tradition of eating good foods this day as well as Tuesday, in preparation for dietary restrictions during Lent.  In Mobile, Lundi Gras is traditionally a family day.  Schools are closed both Lundi and Mardi Gras.  At noon, the Mobile Carnival Association's Floral Parade is held, with area parochial and public schools providing floats and young riders.  The Optimist Club hosts a family-oriented midway near Fort Conde, complete with carnival rides, food, games and activities.  Lundi Gras is also a day for king cake parties and other family get-togethers in Mobile.  As a tradition, after other parades, the Infant Mystics society has held its parade annually after 6 p.m. on this Monday night in downtown Mobile.
Celebrations begin early on Mardi Gras day.  Downtown, the long parade organized by the Order of Athena rolls first, followed by the Comic Cowboys, founded in 1884.  The evening ends with a spectacular night parade of illuminated floats decorated to a theme chosen by the Order of Myths. Each parade follows a defined route so that viewers can plan attendance along particular streets or balconies.
Some parades are long and circular so that viewers can walk to a second viewing spot and catch more throws, as the floats circle back.  It allows more time to see performances as well. Numerous smaller parades and walking clubs also parade around the city.
Promptly at the stroke of midnight at the end of Fat Tuesday, all festivities related to Mardi Gras cease, as it is the start of Lent.  City crews quickly clean the streets of all signs of Mardi Gras for the next day. Local traditions frown on wearing Mardi Gras beads during Lent.  Both Catholics and other Christians often observe Lenten rituals, such as giving up certain foods or taking on charitable obligations during the season of repentance.
The design, construction and decoration of Mardi Gras floats is a year-round business in Mobile.  Several companies along the Gulf Coast do no other work than building floats.  The larger floats in Mobile's parades are designed to hold about 15 or 16 adults and their throws.  City regulations stipulate length, width and height of floats, to ensure that the floats can safely navigate the narrow streets and tight turns of downtown.
The floats are typically multilevel, with a lower and upper level, and one or two mezzanine stations (typically near the back of the float).  The float "captain" typically rides on the upper level, which lets him or her see everyone on the float.  For floats in night-time parades, the structures are wired for lighting, and a portable generator is towed behind the float to provide power.  Each float also contains some type of portable restroom facilities.  Although from the street, a Mardi Gras float might look like a dainty, flimsy contraption, the reality is that they are quite sturdily built and are capable of withstanding a good rocking by the riders.
Some of Mobile's most famous floats include:
For many of the Mardi Gras parades in Mobile, members of societies on floats toss gifts to the general public, known as throws, that include plastic beads, moonpies, doubloon coins, decorated plastic cups, candy, wrapped cakes/snacks, stuffed animals, and small toys, footballs, frisbees, or whistles.
Mardi Gras throws have themselves evolved over the years.  As little as 20 years ago, the beads thrown by Mobile maskers were small, cheap plastic pieces, and few maskers gave much thought to them.  Today, the beads can be the most expensive items on a masker's throw list.  In 1956, the first Moon Pies were thrown by children on the Queen's float in the Comic Cowboys parade.[17] Moon Pies have since become a staple of Mardi Gras in Mobile.  Other items that have come and gone through Mobile's Mardi Gras history include Cracker Jacks (outlawed in 1972), confetti and candy.  Maskers throwing candy today typically throw small bags of bubble gum, kisses and other sweet treats.
Mystic society members have thrown strings of beads from floats to parade-goers since at least the late 19th century. Until the 1960s, the most common forms were custom-colored necklaces of smaller glass beads made in Czechoslovakia. These were replaced by inexpensive, durable, standardized plastic beads. Lower-cost beads allow riders to purchase greater quantities, hence throws have become more numerous and common.
In the 1990s, many people lost interest in small, common beads, often leaving them where they had landed on the ground. Larger, more elaborate, multi-colored bead necklaces and strands with figures of animals, people, or other objects have become the sought-after throws.  Nevertheless, citing the increasing cost of throws, maskers continue to buy and throw the smaller diameter beads to the masses and save the more expensive, elaborate creations for friends along the route.
One of the many Mardi Gras throws, doubloons are large coins, either plastic or metal, that are usually in the Mardi Gras colors.  These coins portray the mystic society's emblem, name, and founding date on one side, and the theme and year of the parade and ball on the other side. The Infant Mystics were the first Mobile mystic to toss doubloons in the mid-1960s.
The doubloons thrown during the parade are inexpensive, stamped anodized aluminum. However, a thriving cottage industry has developed for the production and collection of limited edition doubloons.  As a means of fundraising, many societies now offer limited edition doubloons struck from bronze, silver, gold and platinum.  Other offerings include cloisonné and hand-painted varieties.  Rather than being stamped, these pieces are struck like legal tender coins. The Resurrected Cowbellion de Rakin Society struck what has become the most unusual coins in Mobile Carnival history – the Belldallion – doubloons struck in the shape of a cowbell.
In recent years, plastic cups have been thrown.  The Order of Inca was the first krewe to throw plastic cups emblazoned with their emblem and the theme of the parade and ball.  Now, every mystic society in the city throws themed cups from their floats.  Also thrown are generic Mardi Gras cups, often with the dates of future Mardi Gras seasons printed on them.
The snacks are typically wrapped, individual portions of food, such as a brownie cookie, snack cake, bag of peanuts, or a Moon Pie, usually in the flavors of chocolate, banana, or orange frosted marshmallow cake. Several newer flavors of coconut, vanilla, mint, peanut butter, blueberry, and salted caramel have been added over the years. The tossed snacks have also included various bags of pork rinds crackers.  Other snacks include dried fruits and whole bags of candy and gum.
A large variety of soft plastic toys have become throws, such as hollow plastic water pistols, or ribbed tube-straw whistles. The plastic toy Frisbees are typically small-sized frisbees, with the round disc less than 8 inches (41 cm) in diameter.  Small footballs of soft plastic, or foam rubber, have been thrown from floats, often aimed to spin when thrown like a full-sized football.  Many of these are emblazoned with the Society's emblem or initials.
On the days before Fat Tuesday (other than at parties), people who do not belong to a mystic society seldom wear costumes and masks publicly.  Sometimes the general public may wear costumes or masks on Mardi Gras Day.  Most people simply dress to be attractive, enjoying the open air and the chance to socialize with other people.
Mystic society members wear elaborate costumes that reflect the theme of their parade, ball or float.  Costumes include custom-made hats or feather headdresses, though some societies do not require this.  Most of the traditional krewes require riders to wear a mask that is sufficient to conceal the rider's identity.  Excessive cutting of the mask or removing the mask at any time during the parade is grounds for dismissal from some societies.  Some mystic societies also require that members wear masks during the society's ball (typically held the same night of its parade).
Since 1957, the general public has been allowed to wear masks only on Mardi Gras day from 9am – 9pm, or if they are members of mystic societies.[17]  The restriction is related to problems with masked bandits and also lingering associations with the damage done by the Ku Klux Klan.
The flambeaux or flame-torch was originally a beacon for parade-goers to better enjoy the spectacle of night festivities.  In Mobile, night parades were formerly cross-lit by torches topped by signal flares.
By the end of the 20th century, most burning flares were replaced by generator-powered electric lights on the floats.  The Order of Myths parade still uses people carrying flambeaux, a.k.a. fuel torches, on Mardi Gras night.
There is virtually no commercial advertising during the Mobile parades, as it was prohibited by law in 1935.  The various floats in a parade have been designed as independent creations, although some mystic societies have entertained the idea of corporate sponsors.[10]
The first week of January starts the king cake season. The traditional king cake was associated with Epiphany, January 6, also known as Twelfth Night, when English and Europeans celebrated Christmas for twelve days up to this night.  The current version is a coffee cake, and is oblong and braided. The cake is iced with a simple icing and covered with purple, green and gold sugar. Each cake contains a small hidden baby doll.  According to custom, whoever finds the doll must either buy the next King Cake or throw the next King Cake party.  In Mobile, people throw hundreds of King Cake parties every year, and thousands of cakes are made, bought and eaten.
Several common images or phrases appear during the Mardi Gras season:
Over the past centuries, laws have been established in Mobile to limit certain types of behavior during the Carnival season.  Laws in Mobile have regulated activities based on race, immorality, noise, face masks, gloves, parading, fireworks, and objects thrown.[17]  In 1826, people of color were required to obtain licenses for assemblies or dances;[17] in 1845, balls were banned at homes of free blacks or slaves (but not Creoles);[17] and in 1866, laws restricted noise or any party where "immoral or disorderly persons" might gather.[17]
After 1902 the use of masks were largely limited to mystic societies or children under 12.[17] In 1918, public masking was forbidden in Mobile during World War I (repealed in 1920);[17] by 1947, masks were limited to mystic societies only, plus a masked individual was forbidden to "wear gloves or have his hands concealed" or covered.[17]  After 1957, the general public were allowed to wear masks, but only on Mardi Gras day from 9a.m.–9p.m., or as members of mystic societies.[17]
Because of safety issues, in 1987 fireworks were prohibited during Mardi Gras.[17]  The city also restricted pets in parade areas, skateboards and scooters, prohibited firearms, and the public throwing any object into the parade.
While many visiting tourists might think of Mardi Gras as an adult holiday, local residents view it as a time of family traditions; indeed, many view the parades mainly as sources of enjoyment for children. Many families with young children gather along the parade routes in downtown. The city discourages nudity, blatant public drunkenness and other lewd behavior, which will lead to a prompt arrest if witnessed by law enforcement.
Due to the complex web of events in the 300-year history of Mardi Gras in Mobile, it is not easy to compare activities with New Orleans, which includes celebrations of the many communities within the Greater New Orleans area.  Both regions schedule dozens of parades and have masked balls oriented towards adults, with alcoholic beverages. Both celebrations include family-oriented activities in addition to the more popularized images of alcohol consumption and rowdiness that have colored popular perception of the events.
The histories of Mobile and New Orleans are broadly interconnected, with both having been the capital of French Louisiana in the early 18th century, and later, both under control of Spain. Although Mobile's annual parades began with a Tuesday procession in 1711, the scheduled mystic society parades in Mobile were developed 120 years later and held for New Year's Eve, while New Orleans developed a traditional Tuesday public procession on Mardi Gras day.[17][10][11]  A cross-mix occurred when former Mobile Cowbellions instigated scheduled Tuesday parades in New Orleans, which led Joe Cain having parading in New Orleans in 1865, and then in Mobile in 1867.[17][10] The influence of Joe Cain led to an annual Joe Cain Day in Mobile, celebrated with a parade, on the Sunday before Ash Wednesday, but not in New Orleans, which has other traditions.[17]
The mystic societies or orders/krewes differ between the cities. Mobile's final parade, on Tuesday night, is presented by the Order of Myths. In New Orleans, since 1857 the final parade had been presented by the Mistick Krewe of Comus, until they ceased parading in 1991. Now Mardi Gras ends with the parades of Zulu, Rex, Elks and Crescent City.  The official end of Mardi Gras in New Orleans is the meeting of the courts of Rex and Comus at midnight.  Both krewes have held their balls on Fat Tuesday night for over a century.  Rex and his queen and court leave their ball and go to ball of the Mystic Krewe of Comus, as Rex is the younger organization.
Like so much of the Gulf Coast, many parts of Mobile were flooded due to the intense storm surge caused by Hurricane Katrina on August 28–29, 2005.[18]  Although some waterfront areas were submerged and battered by high waves, downtown was flooded only several feet deep, including the downtown parade routes.  Despite these difficulties, enough of the routes were cleared to continue Mardi Gras celebrations, and Mobile had the largest Mardi Gras in its history following the storm.[19] The following year, the 2007 Mardi Gras season in Mobile was attended by roughly 900,000 people, with police estimating the overall attendance at 878,000 and a crowd of 105,600 along the streets for the Fat Tuesday finale.[20]
The Mobile Mardi Gras season uses several terms which have specific meanings for the events:
Denys Olehovych Aleksandrov (Ukrainian: Денис Олегович Александров; born 5 May 1992) is a Ukrainian retired footballer who played as a forward.

This biographical article related to a Ukrainian association football forward born in the 1990s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sergio Bergonzelli (25 August 1924 – 24 September 2002) was an Italian director, screenwriter, producer and actor.
Born in Alba, Cuneo, Bergonzelli graduated in Philosophy, then he started working as an actor with the stage name Siro Carme.[1][2] After being assistant and second unit director in a number of genre films, in 1960 he made his debut as director and screenwriter with Seven in the Sun.[1][2] Also a film producer, Bergonzelli was the first to produce Spaghetti Western films entirely shot in Italy.[2] In the 1970s he specialized in the erotic genre.[1]

This biographical article related to film in Italy is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Astrid Saalbach (born 29 November 1955) is a Danish playwright and novelist.[1]
She was born in Søborg[1] and trained in acting at the Danish National Theatre School. She worked as an actor for seven years before turning to writing.[2] In 1981, she wrote the radio play Spor i sandet (Footprints in the sand). That was followed by the radio play Bekræftelsen (The Confirmation) in 1982 and the television play En verden, der blegner (A World that Fades Away) in 1984. In 1985, she published a book of short stories, Månens ansigt (The face of the moon).[1]
Later plays include:
In 1999, she published her first novel Den hun er (Who She Is).[4]
Saalbach married Jens Kaas.[2]
She received the Nordic Radio Play Award in 1983 and the lifetime state grant in 1997.[2] She has also received the Kjeld Abell Prize and the Holberg Medal.[4]
Author's website

This article about a Danish writer or poet is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Port Mahon Dockyard[1] was a Royal Navy Dockyard located at Port Mahon, Menorca, Spain. It was opened in 1708 and in 1802 the port was ceded back to Spain. However a resident commissioner of the Royal Navy was still appointed as late as 1814. The dockyard was administered by the Navy Board and was part of the Mediterranean Fleet.
The Port Mahon Dockyard was established at Port Mahon, one of the world's deepest natural harbours, in 1708, following orders issued by the Admiralty to Admiral Sir George Byng the Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean Squadron. He was instructed to develop the Port of Mahon as a naval base following the capture of Minorca.[2] The dockyard was located on the north side of the harbour, opposite Port Mahon town. In 1756 control of the dockyard was fought over during the Battle of Minorca (1756). During the 1760s naval storehouses were constructed. The dockyard was the Royal Navy's principal Mediterranean base for much of the eighteenth century; however the territory changed hands more than once in that time, before being finally ceded to Spain in 1802.[3]
The dockyard was administered by the Navy Board and was part of the Mediterranean Station.
The Master Shipwright was the key official at the royal navy dockyards until the introduction of resident commissioners by the Navy Board after which he became deputy to the resident commissioner. In 1832 the post of commissioner was replaced by the post of superintendent.
Post holders included:[4][5][6]
Post holders included:[8]
Post holders included:[9]
Post holders included:[10]
Post holders included:[11]
Post holders included:[12]
The Sloop of war HMS Minorca was built at the dockyard in 1779. In 1798 the 18 gun brig sloop HMS Port Mahon was also constructed here.
Lagenocystis radicicola (Vanterp. & Ledingham) H.F. Copel., (1956)
Lagena radicicola is an oomycete plant pathogen that was described from the roots of wheat,[1] barley, and rye from a field in Saskatchewan in 1930 by Vanterpool and Ledingham.[2] Thalli grow inside the root cells; they are tubular, unbranched, and highly variable in size. Thalli give rise to sporangia, which either release zoospores into a vesicle exterior to the plant cell or into the plant cell. Zoospores are reniform to pyrifom and biflagellate with an anterior flagellum covered with mastigonemes and a posterior whiplash flagellum.[3]
In 1956, Copeland moved Lagena radicicola to Lagenocystis because of the existence of Lagena Parker & Jones—a name applied to a foraminiferan. However, foraminiferan names are governed by the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature and oomycete names are governed by International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants. Therefore, the move was unnecessary and Lagenocystis (Vanterp. & Ledingham) H. F. Copel. is a superfluous synonym.[2]

This water mould-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This plant disease article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The following is a partial list of minor planets, running from minor-planet number 88001 through 89000, inclusive. The primary data for this and other partial lists is based on JPL's "Small-Body Orbital Elements"[1] and data available from the Minor Planet Center.[2] Critical list information is also provided by the MPC,[2] unless otherwise specified from Lowell Observatory.[3] A detailed description of the table's columns and additional sources are given on the main page including a complete list of every page in this series, and a statistical break-up on the dynamical classification of minor planets.
Also see the summary list of all named bodies in numerical and alphabetical order, and the corresponding naming citations for the number range of this particular list. New namings may only be added to this list after official publication, as the preannouncement of names is condemned by the Working Group for Small Bodies Nomenclature of the International Astronomical Union.
Sources: [4][5]
Luis Antonio Cosme is a Puerto Rican television cook, actor, singer, musician, writer, producer, reporter and show host.[1] He is mostly known as one of two show hosts and cooks, usually alongside Otilio Warrington, "Bizcocho", of two television cooking shows named "Friendo y Comiendo" (on WAPA-TV, channel 4) and "A Freir  y a Comer" (Telemundo Puerto Rico, channel 2).
Cosme began his career in entertainment during 1952, as a third guitarist and leading voice on a group named "Los Marqueses".[1] He later joined the Universidad de Puerto Rico's choir and in 1959, he sang as a soloist at the Festival Casals, having met maestro Pablo Casals previously.
A few years later, Cosme joined a touring group of the Metropolitan Opera House also composed by Justino Diaz and Pablo Elvira; this group toured Puerto Rico and Cosme was able to sing operas.
In 1972, Cosme, along with singers Tito Lara, Vilma Colon, Carmen Caldas, Gloria Caldas, and Luis Beltran Rojas, formed a band named "Allegro 72". In this musical group, he was later joined by Lunna, Cosme's future show co-host Dagmar, Alice Gracia and Lunna's future husband, Cuco Pena. With this group, Cosme sang at New York City's Carnegie Hall.[2]
During the late 1980s, Cosme re-took his music career, playing guitar on some of his stepdaughter, opera and Christian music singer Yolanda Vadiz's presentations.[3]
Cosme periodically left his music career when he was offered a job as a news reporter on WIPR-TV, channel 6, Puerto Rico's government's television station. He covered the Dominican Civil War, the Bay of Pigs Invasion in Cuba and happenings at the Panama Canal, among others.[1]
Beginning in 1961, Cosme sang and acted in Broadway productions such as Oklahoma!, Carousel, and Guys and Dolls.[1]
Cosme has acted in films, including:
Cosme's career as a show host began in 1982 when he hosted "Friendo y Comiendo" at WAPA-TV. In 1984, he moved to WAPA-TV's rival channel, Telemundo Puerto Rico, lured by an offer to host a game show named Super Sabados, which was broadcast across Puerto Rico and to the Dominican Republic and the United States.[citation needed]
In 1985, Telemundo Puerto Rico revived Cosme's old cooking show from WAPA-TV, renaming it "A Freir y a Comer". This version of the show lasted many years on the air.
Cosme also wrote several books about cooking, including 1983's "Friendo y Comiendo" (loosely translated to "Frying and Eating" but in Puerto Rican Spanish the title translates better to "Cooking and Eating"),[4] a 2000 re-edition of "Friendo y Comiendo",[5] 2011's "Cocina Facil Para Ninos" ("Easy Cooking for Children") and 2015's "Riendo y Comiendo" ("Laughing and Eating") which is a book with recipes for diabetic diets.[6]
Cosme suffers heart related problems and wears a pacemaker. Cosme is also a diabetic.[7]
The 1995–96 network television schedule for the six major English language commercial broadcast networks in the United States covers the primetime hours from September 1995 through August 1996. The schedule is followed by a list per network of returning series, new series, and series canceled after the 1994–95 season.
PBS is not included; member stations have local flexibility over most of their schedules and broadcast times for network shows may vary.
Each of the 30 highest-rated shows released in May 1996 is listed with its rank and rating as determined by Nielsen Media Research.[1]
This is the first fall season for The WB and UPN. The schedules of either network would not be constant until fall 1999, when the WB decided to air shows from Sunday through Friday and UPN would air Monday through Friday. This is also the first television season to officially end in the month of May.
New series highlighted in bold.
Repeat airings or same-day rebroadcasts are indicated by (R).
All times are U.S. Eastern and Pacific Time (except for some live sports or events). Subtract one hour for Central, Mountain, Alaska and Hawaii-Aleutian times.
All sporting events air live in all time zones in U.S. Eastern time, with local and/or late-night programming (including Fox affiliates during the 10 p.m. ET/PT hour) by affiliates after game completion.
Other Legend
Note: JAG was on Saturdays until February 3, 1996; then, on March 13, 1996, NBC moved the show to Wednesdays.


Not returning from 1994–95:



Not returning from 1994–95:



Not returning from 1994–95:



Not returning from 1994–95:



Not returning from 1994–95:



Not returning from 1994–95:

Note: The * indicates that the program was introduced in midseason.
Hung Hom (Chinese: 紅磡) is one of the 24 constituencies in the Kowloon City District of Hong Kong which was created in 1994.
The constituency has an estimated population of 13,762.[3]
Psorosperm (from the Greek ψωρα itch and σπερμα seed) is a former name of a number of parasitic protozoa that produce cystlike or sporelike structures in the tissue of hosts. The term is now essentially obsolete. 
J. Müller introduced the term in German (as Psorospermien) in 1841.[2][3]
Psorosperm was at one point believed to be the cause of Darier's disease.[4][5]
"Psorospermiasis" is classified under 136.4 in ICD-9.[6]
This article related to parasites is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Gerrard Eugene Cole (February 18, 1928 – January 11, 2018) was an American athlete who competed mainly in the 400 metres.[1]
Born in New Lexington, Ohio, Gene Cole attended Lancaster High School (Ohio). He competed for the United States in the 1952 Summer Olympics held in Helsinki, Finland in the 4 x 400 metre relay where he won the silver medal with his teammates 400 metres bronze medalist Ollie Matson, Charles Moore and Mal Whitfield.[2]

This article about a track and field Olympic medalist of the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Syllepte attenualis is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by George Hampson in 1912.[1] It is endemic to Kenya.[2]
The wingspan is about 40 millimetres (1.6 in) for males and 34 millimetres (1.3 in) for females. The forewings are pale ochreous, irrorated with brown, especially on the costal area to the postmedial line. There is a subbasal black spot on the inner margin and an oblique sinuous fuscous antemedial line, as well as a black point in the middle of the cell and a discoidal bar. The postmedial line is fuscous and there is a punctiform black terminal line. The hindwings are pale ochreous, irrorated with brown especially on the disc. There is a slight fuscous discoidal bar and a fuscous postmedial line. There is also a fine black terminal line.[3]

This Syllepte-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
In mathematics, the Haar wavelet is a sequence of rescaled "square-shaped" functions which together form a wavelet family or basis. Wavelet analysis is similar to Fourier analysis in that it allows a target function over an interval to be represented in terms of an orthonormal basis. The Haar sequence is now recognised as the first known wavelet basis and is extensively used as a teaching example.
The Haar sequence was proposed in 1909 by Alfréd Haar.[1] 
Haar used these functions to give an example of an orthonormal system for the space of square-integrable functions on the unit interval [0, 1]. The study of wavelets, and even the term "wavelet", did not come until much later. As a special case of the Daubechies wavelet, the Haar wavelet is also known as Db1.
The Haar wavelet is also the simplest possible wavelet. The technical disadvantage of the Haar wavelet is that it is not continuous, and therefore not differentiable. This property can, however, be an advantage for the analysis of signals with sudden transitions (discrete signals), such as monitoring of tool failure in machines.[2]
The Haar wavelet's mother wavelet function 



ψ
(
t
)


{\displaystyle \psi (t)}

 can be described as
Its scaling function 



φ
(
t
)


{\displaystyle \varphi (t)}

 can be described as
For every pair n, k of integers in 




Z



{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} }

, the Haar function ψn,k is defined on the real line 




R



{\displaystyle \mathbb {R} }

 by the formula
This function is supported on the right-open interval  In,k = [ k2−n, (k+1)2−n), i.e., it vanishes outside that interval. It has integral 0 and norm 1 in the Hilbert space L2(




R



{\displaystyle \mathbb {R} }

),
The Haar functions are pairwise orthogonal,
where 




δ

i
j




{\displaystyle \delta _{ij}}

 represents the Kronecker delta. Here is the reason for orthogonality: when the two supporting intervals 




I


n

1


,

k

1






{\displaystyle I_{n_{1},k_{1}}}

 and 




I


n

2


,

k

2






{\displaystyle I_{n_{2},k_{2}}}

 are not equal, then they are either disjoint, or else the smaller of the two supports, say 




I


n

1


,

k

1






{\displaystyle I_{n_{1},k_{1}}}

, is contained in the lower or in the upper half of the other interval, on which the function 




ψ


n

2


,

k

2






{\displaystyle \psi _{n_{2},k_{2}}}

 remains constant. It follows in this case that the product of these two Haar functions is a multiple of the first Haar function, hence the product has integral 0.
The Haar system on the real line is the set of functions
It is complete in L2(




R



{\displaystyle \mathbb {R} }

): The Haar system on the line is an orthonormal basis in L2(




R



{\displaystyle \mathbb {R} }

).
The Haar wavelet has several notable properties:
In this section, the discussion is restricted to the unit interval [0, 1] and to the Haar functions that are supported on [0, 1]. The system of functions considered by Haar in 1910,[5]
called the Haar system on [0, 1] in this article, consists of the subset of Haar wavelets defined as
with the addition of the constant function 1 on [0, 1].
In Hilbert space terms, this Haar system on [0, 1] is a complete orthonormal system, i.e., an orthonormal basis, for the space L2([0, 1]) of square integrable functions on the unit interval.
The Haar system on [0, 1] —with the constant function 1 as first element, followed with the Haar functions ordered according to the lexicographic ordering of couples (n, k)— is further a monotone Schauder basis for the space Lp([0, 1]) when 1 ≤ p < ∞.[6] 
This basis is unconditional when 1 < p < ∞.[7]
There is a related Rademacher system consisting of sums of Haar functions, 
Notice that |rn(t)| = 1 on [0, 1). This is an orthonormal system but it is not complete.[8][9]
In the language of probability theory, the Rademacher sequence is an instance of a sequence of independent Bernoulli random variables with mean 0. The Khintchine inequality expresses the fact that in all the spaces Lp([0, 1]), 1 ≤ p < ∞, the Rademacher sequence is equivalent to the unit vector basis in ℓ2.[10] In particular, the closed linear span of the Rademacher sequence in Lp([0, 1]), 1 ≤ p < ∞, is isomorphic to ℓ2.
The Faber–Schauder system[11][12][13] 
is the family of continuous functions on [0, 1] consisting of the constant function 1, and of multiples of indefinite integrals of the functions in the Haar system on [0, 1], chosen to have norm 1 in the maximum norm. This system begins with s0 = 1, then  s1(t) = t is the indefinite integral vanishing at 0 of the function 1, first element of the Haar system on [0, 1]. Next, for every integer n ≥ 0, functions  sn,k are defined by the formula
These functions  sn,k are continuous, piecewise linear, supported by the interval  In,k that also supports  ψn,k. The function  sn,k is equal to 1 at the midpoint  xn,k of the interval  In,k, linear on both halves of that interval. It takes values between 0 and 1 everywhere.
The Faber–Schauder system is a Schauder basis for the space C([0, 1]) of continuous functions on [0, 1].[6] 
For every f in C([0, 1]), the partial sum
of the series expansion of f in the Faber–Schauder system is the continuous piecewise linear function that agrees with f at the 2n + 1 points k2−n, where  0 ≤ k ≤ 2n. Next, the formula
gives a way to compute the expansion of f step by step. Since f is uniformly continuous, the sequence {fn} converges uniformly to f. It follows that the Faber–Schauder series expansion of f converges in C([0, 1]), and the sum of this series is equal to f.
The Franklin system is obtained from the Faber–Schauder system by the Gram–Schmidt orthonormalization procedure.[14][15]
Since the Franklin system has the same linear span as that of the Faber–Schauder system, this span is dense in C([0, 1]), hence in L2([0, 1]). The Franklin system is therefore an orthonormal basis for L2([0, 1]), consisting of continuous piecewise linear functions. P. Franklin proved in 1928 that this system is a Schauder basis for C([0, 1]).[16] 
The Franklin system is also an unconditional Schauder basis for the space Lp([0, 1]) when 1 < p < ∞.[17]
The Franklin system provides a Schauder basis in the disk algebra A(D).[17]
This was proved in 1974 by Bočkarev, after the existence of a basis for the disk algebra had remained open for more than forty years.[18]
Bočkarev's construction of a Schauder basis in A(D) goes as follows: let f be a complex valued Lipschitz function on [0, π]; then f is the sum of a cosine series with absolutely summable coefficients. Let T(f) be the element of A(D) defined by the complex power series with the same coefficients,
Bočkarev's basis for A(D) is formed by the images under T of the functions in the Franklin system on [0, π]. Bočkarev's equivalent description for the mapping T starts by extending f to an even Lipschitz function g1 on [−π, π], identified with a Lipschitz function on the unit circle T. Next, let g2 be the conjugate function of g1, and define T(f) to be the function in A(D) whose value on the boundary T of D is equal to g1 + ig2.
When dealing with 1-periodic continuous functions, or rather with continuous functions f on [0, 1] such that f(0) = f(1), one removes the function  s1(t) = t from the Faber–Schauder system, in order to obtain the periodic Faber–Schauder system. The periodic Franklin system is obtained by orthonormalization from the periodic Faber–-Schauder system.[19]
One can prove Bočkarev's result on A(D) by proving that the periodic Franklin system on [0, 2π] is a basis for a Banach space Ar isomorphic to A(D).[19] 
The space Ar consists of complex continuous functions on the unit circle T whose conjugate function is also continuous.
The 2×2 Haar matrix that is associated with the Haar wavelet is
Using the discrete wavelet transform, one can transform any sequence 



(

a

0


,

a

1


,
…
,

a

2
n


,

a

2
n
+
1


)


{\displaystyle (a_{0},a_{1},\dots ,a_{2n},a_{2n+1})}

 of even length into a sequence of two-component-vectors 




(


(


a

0


,

a

1



)

,

(


a

2


,

a

3



)

,
…
,

(


a

2
n


,

a

2
n
+
1



)


)



{\displaystyle \left(\left(a_{0},a_{1}\right),\left(a_{2},a_{3}\right),\dots ,\left(a_{2n},a_{2n+1}\right)\right)}

. If one right-multiplies each vector with the matrix 




H

2




{\displaystyle H_{2}}

, one gets the result 




(


(


s

0


,

d

0



)

,
…
,

(


s

n


,

d

n



)


)



{\displaystyle \left(\left(s_{0},d_{0}\right),\dots ,\left(s_{n},d_{n}\right)\right)}

 of one stage of the fast Haar-wavelet transform. Usually one separates the sequences s and d and continues with transforming the sequence s. Sequence s is often referred to as the averages part, whereas d is known as the details part.[20]
If one has a sequence of length a multiple of four, one can build blocks of 4 elements and transform them in a similar manner with the 4×4 Haar matrix
which combines two stages of the fast Haar-wavelet transform.
Compare with a Walsh matrix, which is a non-localized 1/–1 matrix.
Generally, the 2N×2N Haar matrix can be derived by the following equation.
The Kronecker product of 



A
⊗
B


{\displaystyle A\otimes B}

, where 



A


{\displaystyle A}

 is an m×n matrix and 



B


{\displaystyle B}

 is a p×q matrix, is expressed as
An un-normalized 8-point Haar matrix 




H

8




{\displaystyle H_{8}}

 is shown below
Note that, the above matrix is an un-normalized Haar matrix. The Haar matrix required by the Haar transform should be normalized.
From the definition of the Haar matrix 



H


{\displaystyle H}

, one can observe that, unlike the Fourier transform, 



H


{\displaystyle H}

 has only real elements (i.e., 1, -1 or 0) and is non-symmetric.
Take the 8-point Haar matrix 




H

8




{\displaystyle H_{8}}

 as an example. The first row of 




H

8




{\displaystyle H_{8}}

 measures the average value, and the second row of 




H

8




{\displaystyle H_{8}}

 measures a low frequency component of the input vector. The next two rows are sensitive to the first and second half of the input vector respectively, which corresponds to moderate frequency components. The remaining four rows are sensitive to the four section of the input vector, which corresponds to high frequency components.[21]
The Haar transform is the simplest of the wavelet transforms. This transform cross-multiplies a function against the Haar wavelet with various shifts and stretches, like the Fourier transform cross-multiplies a function against a sine wave with two phases and many stretches.[22][clarification needed]
The Haar transform is one of the oldest transform functions, proposed in 1910 by the Hungarian mathematician Alfréd Haar. It is found effective in applications such as signal and image compression in electrical and computer engineering as it provides a simple and computationally efficient approach for analysing the local aspects of a signal.
The Haar transform is derived from the Haar matrix. An example of a 4×4 Haar transformation matrix is shown below.
The Haar transform can be thought of as a sampling process in which rows of the transformation matrix act as samples of finer and finer resolution.
Compare with the Walsh transform, which is also 1/–1, but is non-localized.
The Haar transform has the following properties
The Haar transform yn of an n-input function xn is
The Haar transform matrix is real and orthogonal. Thus, the inverse Haar transform can be derived by the following equations.
Thus, the inverse Haar transform is
The Haar transform coefficients of a n=4-point signal 




x

4


=
[
1
,
2
,
3
,
4

]

T




{\displaystyle x_{4}=[1,2,3,4]^{T}}

 can be found as
The input signal can then be perfectly reconstructed by the inverse Haar transform
A Question of Attribution is a 1988 one-act stage play, written by Alan Bennett. It focuses on the British art expert and former Soviet agent, Sir Anthony Blunt. It was premiered at the National Theatre, London, on 1 December 1988, directed by Simon Callow.[1] The stage version of An Englishman Abroad, about Blunt's fellow agent Guy Burgess, was also performed on the same bill. The two plays are collectively called Single Spies.[2]
The play was adapted as a 1991 television film of the same name broadcast as part of the BBC's Screen One series. The film was produced by Innes Lloyd, a long-time collaborator of the author in his television work, and is dedicated to his memory.[3] The New York Times called the film a "razor-sharp psychological melodrama" and it won the 1992 BAFTA TV award for Best Single Drama.[4]
The play and subsequent film are based on Blunt's role in the Cambridge Spy Ring and, as Surveyor of the Queen's Pictures, personal art adviser to Queen Elizabeth II. It portrays his interrogation by an MI5 officer, his work researching and conserving art works, his role as Director of the Courtauld Institute, and his acquaintance with the Queen. Bennett described the piece as an "inquiry in which the circumstances are imaginary but the pictures are real.[5]
While supervising the restoration of a dual portrait in which only partial attribution to Titian is thought credible, Blunt discovers a third figure that had been painted over by an unknown artist, and concludes by comparison with a better known triple portrait in London's National Gallery (Allegory of Prudence) that the newly revealed third figure was Titian's son. As Blunt's public exposure as a spy in 1979 draws near, the play suggests that he has been made a scapegoat to protect others in the security service. At the end of the film, the time of Blunt's exposure, Blunt tells Chubb that X-rays had revealed the presence of a fourth and fifth man.
One of the sub-texts in the scene with the Queen is whether or not Her Majesty knew that Blunt was a former Soviet spy. They briefly discuss the Dutch Vermeer forger Han van Meegeren, and how his paintings now look like fakes, but were accepted as genuine in the (early) 1940s, and touch on the  nature of fakes and secrets. After she has left and an assistant asks what they were talking about, Blunt replies "I was talking about art. I'm not sure that she was."[6]
The play was adapted for radio in 2006, with Edward Petherbridge as Blunt and Prunella Scales as the Queen in the second.[7]
Vodno (Serbian Cyrillic: Водно) is a small village in the municipality of Pljevlja, Montenegro.
According to the 2003 census, the village had a population of 57 people.[1]
According to the 2011 census, its population was 27 with 24 of them being Serbs.[2]
This Montenegro location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
SBS Broadcasting Group (SBS), formerly Scandinavian Broadcasting Systems, was a European multinational media group, operating commercial television, premium pay channels, radio stations and related print businesses in Northern, Western and Central and Eastern Europe. It became the second-largest broadcaster in Europe.[1]
SBS was founded by Harry E. Sloan in 1989,[2][3] who bought a stake in the Danish station Kanal 2 (a local station in Copenhagen, now Kanal 4) and Norwegian TVNorge. In 1991, Sloan bought the Swedish Nordic Channel, which was soon renamed Kanal 5 and became the third-largest commercial broadcaster in the country. The company was originally known as "TV1", but was renamed "Scandinavian Broadcasting Systems" in 1991. After expanding into Benelux and Eastern Europe, the name was changed again, this time to SBS. By July 1994, the time of the CC/ABC-Disney merger, Capital Cities/ABC owned 23% of SBS.[4]
In March 2005, SBS acquired C More Entertainment, a Nordic pay tv provider operating under the Canal+ brand. In that year, SBS was bought by the equity firms Permira and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR).[5] Telegraaf Media Groep of the Netherlands was also a shareholder in SBS, with a 20% equity interest.[6] Permira and KKR also bought the German broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1 Media in early 2007, and on 27 June 2007 it was announced that ProSiebenSat.1 Media acquired the SBS Broadcasting group for 3.3 billion euros from the joint owners. ProSiebenSat.1 Media became the second-largest broadcaster of Europe with 48 TV stations.
Starting in 2011, ProSiebenSat.1 Media started to sell its non-German properties. The Dutch operations have been bought by Sanoma and Talpa Media Holding on 20 April 2011.[7] In the end of 2011 ProSiebenSat.1 Group has sold its Bulgarian radio stations as well as the music channel the Voice TV to A.E. Best Success Services Bulgaria EOOD. The transaction was closed on 10 November 2011. On 14 December 2012, Discovery Communications bought the Nordic portion of SBS for $1.7 billion.[8] The radio stations were later sold to Bauer Media Group. The Romanian TV and radio operations were bought by Romanian businessman Cristian Burci and Antenna Group in 2013.[9]
This section lists former channels and publications until the company's acquisition in 2007.
Belgium
Bulgaria
Denmark
Finland
Italy
Hungary
Macedonia
Netherlands
Norway
Romania
Portugal
SwedenSwitzerland
Denmark
Greece
Norway
Romania
Sweden
The Olimpik Baku 2006–07 season was Olimpik Baku's second Azerbaijan Premier League season and their first season with Asgar Abdullayev as manager. They participated in the 2006–07 Azerbaijan Top League as well as the 2006–07 Azerbaijan Cup, finishing the league in 6th and reaching the Last 16 stage of the cup where they were eliminated by Turan Tovuz.
[1][2]

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
In:

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Out:

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

In:

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.
Out:

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

[5]
[6][7]
Mosqueira is a rare variant of the more popular Mosquera. Notable people with the surname include:
Pelodiaetodes is a genus of ground beetles in the family Carabidae. There are about five described species in Pelodiaetodes, found in New Zealand.[1][2]
These five species belong to the genus Pelodiaetodes:

This Trechinae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Italian singer Eros Ramazzotti has received many Italian and international awards and nominations for his music work. It includes winning as Best Italian Artist three times (1997, 2001 and 2004) and Best Italian Pop/Rock Male Artist (2003) during the World Music Awards. He also was nominated International Male Artist of the Year six times during the Echo Awards (1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2004, 2013).
Lindsay Margaret Errington is a Scottish art historian and former keeper for over 20 years at the National Gallery of Scotland, Edinburgh, where she worked to establish a representative collection of Scottish art.
Lindsay Errington was born in Edinburgh and trained as a painter at the Camberwell School of Art in London but did not follow that as a career. She studied art history at the Courtauld Institute of Art and later completed a PhD there[1] on the subject of "Social and religious themes in English Art" (1973). It was published in book form by Garland in 1984 in their Outstanding theses from the Courtauld Institute of Art series.
Errington taught at the Newcastle College of Art but did not find the work to her liking, preferring to be in Scotland, and was appointed to a curatorial post at the National Gallery of Scotland in 1972, only the second woman to hold such a post. She was asked to look after the Scottish paintings, which her male colleagues did not think an honour, but which she was delighted to do.[1] She was at the gallery for over 20 years where she worked to establish a representative collection of Scottish art[1] and produced many of the monographs on Scottish artists in the Scottish Masters series.
In 1988-89 she was Slade Professor of Fine Art at the University of Cambridge[2] when she was the first Slade professor to lecture on Scottish art.[1]
In 2017, Errington published her most recent book, Private Views, which featured images from the National Gallery's collection with verses composed in response to them.[3]
Wauwil railway station (German: Bahnhof Wauwil) is a railway station in the municipality of Wauwil, in the Swiss canton of Lucerne. It is an intermediate stop on the standard gauge Olten–Lucerne line of Swiss Federal Railways.[1]
The following services stop at Wauwil:[3]
Fukave is an island in Tonga, off the coast of Tongatapu.[1][2]
21°05′34″S 175°01′52″W﻿ / ﻿21.09278°S 175.03111°W﻿ / -21.09278; -175.03111

This Tongan location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
William J. LaVarre (1898-1991) was an American geographer, explorer, and journalist known for his books Up the Mazaruni for Diamonds (1919) and Southward ho! A Treasure Hunter in South America (1940) and for his anti-communist writings.[1] He was the brother of actor John Merton and filmmaker André de la Varre. 
LaVarre was born on August 4, 1898, in Richmond, Virginia, to naval shipbuilder William Johanne LaVarre and Leilia Goddin Hayes LaVarre. His grandfather, William LaVarre, was killed by a disgruntled millworker in Twiggs County, Georgia.[2] LaVarre graduated from Townsend Harris Hall in New York, and took evening geography classes at Columbia University; later he was a special geography student at Harvard.[3]  In the 1920s, he was sent to British Guiana as a collector of specimens for several geographic societies and became an expert on Brazilian rubber.  In 1922 he made headlines for discovering what he claimed was the world’s largest diamond, in British Guiana.[4]
In 1933, at age 31, LaVarre became the owner and editor of the Spartanburg Herald-Journal in South Carolina, after a hostile takeover.[5] He also served as President of the Piedmont Press Association. 
In 1935 LaVarre who was diamond-hunting in Suriname and heard a story about a man who from the sky, and was now living with the Amerindians in Paloemeu, who LaVarre believed to be the missing airman Paul Redfern. The American consulate sent an expedition to the village, but found nothing.[6]
In 1938, LaVarre met the famous prison escapee René Belbenoît and helped him publicize his memoir, Dry Guillotine, and wrote the Introduction. Dry Guillotine is considered more reliable and possibly the basis of the book Pappillon by Henri Charrière on which the 1973 film, Pappillon was based[7][8][9]
LaVarre was widely known for antisemitic views.[10] In 1951 LaVarre published “Moscow’s Red Letter Day” in the American Legion Magazine accusing Franklin Delano Roosevelt of inviting communism into the Americas in a secret deal with Maxim Litvinov that led to normalizing diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union by accepting the ambassadorship of A.A. Troyanovsky and appointing William Christian Bullitt Jr. ambassador to the Soviet Union.[11] He was editor of the right wing magazine The American Mercury from 1957 to 1958.[12]
LaVarre married Alice Lucille Elliott in 1927; the couple had one daughter, Yvette, who later married James Cornelius Ruddell, Jr., who was captured and held as a POW by North Korea during the Korean War.[13]
LaVarre was a Fellow of the American Geographical Society and the Royal Geographical Society (England).[citation needed] His papers are held at the Hoover Institute.[14]
Vincent Patrick Durick (3 January 1916 – 21 February 1996) was an Australian politician. He was a Labor Party member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly from 1964 to 1984, representing the electorate of Lakemba.
Durick was born in Broken Hill, and attended the Railway Town convent school and Marist Brothers College. He moved to Sydney at the age of 17 to attend the Sydney Teachers College, before returning to Broken Hill to teach at Broken Hill Central School. He served in the Second Australian Imperial Force from 1941 to 1944 before being discharged on medical grounds, and returned to teaching at North Broken Hill. In 1946, he relocated from rural Euston to teach at Lakemba Public School in suburban Sydney. He transferred to the state high school system in 1949, teaching variously at Bowral, Homebush Boys High School, Fairfield, and James Cook High school before entering politics.
Durick entered parliament at a 1964 by-election following the death of the incumbent local member, Stan Wyatt. Lakemba was a safe seat for the Labor Party, and Durick was re-elected seven times. Durick served as caucus returning officer for the crucial 1973 leadership ballot that saw Neville Wran win the Labor leadership from Pat Hills; though a Hills supporter, Durick resolved a tied vote by ruling that Wran had won by virtue of leading on the first count.[1] He did not hold party, parliamentary or ministerial office; however, he narrowly missed out on becoming Speaker on one occasion when his rival's name was drawn from a hat. Durick retired at the 1984 state election, and was succeeded by Wes Davoren.
Durick died in February 1996 at Lidcombe.[2][3]
Ernesto Alfredo González Montoya (born September 18, 1990) is a Mexican professional footballer who currently plays for Santos de Soledad.[1]

This biographical article relating to Mexican association football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Stéphane Diagana (born 23 July 1969 in Saint-Affrique, Aveyron) is a retired, French track and field sprinter and hurdler. His specialities were the 400 metres hurdles and the 4 x 400 metres relay.
Diagana won the  400 metres hurdles gold medal at the 1997 World Championships in Athens and the 4 x 400 metres relay gold medal at the 2003 World Championships in Paris.  In 2002 he won the 400 metres hurdles gold medal at the European Championships in Munich. Diagana also set a new, European 400 metres hurdles outdoor record of 47.37 sec. in Lausanne, Switzerland on 5 July 1995. This record stood until June 2019.
In his only Olympic appearance, Diagana finished in fourth position in the final of the 400 metres hurdles of the  1992 Olympics in Barcelona. In that Olympics, his 4 x 400 metres relay team was eliminated in the heats.
Diagana retired from competition in 2004[1] and became a television commentator and advisor to the Fédération française d'athlétisme (French Athletics Federation).[2]
On 7 April 2008, Diagana was an Olympic torch runner for the 2008 Olympics. While he was running with the torch in Paris,  Paris city councillor Sylvain Garel tried to snatch it from his hands.[3]
On 21 January 2011, Diagana was seriously injured in road accident while he was cycling along a road of the Col de Vence in the department of Alpes-Maritimes in southeast France. He was airlifted by helicopter to a hospital in Nice. He suffered head injuries and although in a serious condition, he did not lose consciousness.[2]
He is married to Odile Lesage, with whom he has three children.
Avon Riley (February 10, 1958 – July 2, 2020) was an American football linebacker in the National Football League. He was drafted by the Houston Oilers in the ninth round of the 1981 NFL Draft. He played college football at UCLA. Riley also played for the Pittsburgh Steelers.[1]
He died on July 2, 2020, in Houston, Texas, at age 62.[2]

This biographical article relating to an American football linebacker born in the 1950s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
"Anchors Aweigh" is the fight song of the United States Naval Academy and unofficial march song of the United States Navy. It was composed in 1906 by Charles A. Zimmermann with lyrics by Alfred Hart Miles. When he composed "Anchors Aweigh", Zimmermann was a lieutenant and had been bandmaster of the United States Naval Academy Band since 1887. Miles was midshipman first class at the academy, in the class of 1907, and had asked Zimmermann to assist him in composing a song for that class, to be used as a football march. Another academy midshipman, Royal Lovell (class of 1926), later wrote what would be adopted into the song as its third verse. Another member of the Naval Academy Band, Willy Perlitz Jr., assisting in writing the music for the different instruments used in "Anchors Aweigh".
"Weigh anchor" is an old English sailors' expression first referenced in literature in John Dryden's The Tempest, 1670. It is an order that a ship's anchors be raised,
To "weigh anchor" is to bring all anchor(s) aboard the vessel in preparation for departure. In response to the order, the phrase "anchors aweigh" reports back that all anchors are clear of the sea bottom; therefore the ship is officially under way.
"Anchors aweigh" is often misspelled as "Anchor's away", leading to confusing the terms, and sometimes misunderstanding the order as meaning "to drop anchor".[citation needed] Confusion may also occur over two correct spellings typically encountered: that is, "anchor's" with an apostrophe, and without ("anchors"). Here the phrase "anchor's aweigh", (denoting a single anchor plus the contraction of the verb "is") means: this anchor is raised. The single phrase must be distinguished from the plural "anchors aweigh", which reports that all anchors of the ship are raised.
Although the original (now archaic) "aweigh" is verbal and transitive, the "aweigh" used now is adjectival/adverbial in nature and meaning.[1][2] "Weigh" as a verb means to "bear" or "move", thus giving it several shades of meaning and derivation, including "weight" or "heaviness".
Many arrangements of the song exist, but the original composition by Zimmermann from 1906, is labelled as a "March and Two-Step" and consists of a lengthy instrumental march introductory section, which then becomes a two-step with lyrical accompaniment approximately halfway into the piece.[3]
Many arrangements of "Anchors Aweigh" exist today, one arrangement by Paul V. Yoder often sees use by military bands, such as those of the Japan Self-Defense Forces, the Bundeswehr, and other nations' militaries.[4][5][6][7][8]
The song was first played during the Army–Navy football game on December 1, 1906, at Franklin Field in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Navy won the game 10–0 before a crowd in excess of 30,000, their first win in the matchup since 1900.[citation needed]
The song was gradually adopted as the song of the U.S. Navy; although there is a pending proposal to make it the official song, and to incorporate protocol into Navy regulations for its performance, its status remains unofficial.[timeframe?] Its lyrics were considered too specific to the Academy and not representative of the Navy at large, and so were rewritten by George D. Lottman (note the reference to "farewell to college joys"). Its melody was also slightly rewritten by Domenico Savino.[timeframe?]
The song has a joyful, brisk melody, and it has been adopted by several other navies around the world, such as the Finnish Navy. In addition to being bandmaster at the Naval Academy, Zimmerman was also the organist at St. Mary's Catholic Church in Annapolis, and the opening notes of the melody to "Anchors Aweigh" bear a marked similarity (although in a different tempo) to the opening of the ancient Marian hymn Salve Regina, with which Zimmerman would have been thoroughly familiar.
During World War II, members of the Navy Women's Reserve, known more popularly as the WAVES, wrote "WAVES of the Navy" to harmonize with "Anchors Aweigh".[9]
Bing Crosby included the song in a medley on his album 101 Gang Songs (1961).
"Anchors Aweigh" (1906 version), which is still used today at the Naval Academy.[1]
Stand Navy down the field, sails set to the sky;
We'll never change our course, So Army you steer shy-y-y-y.
Roll up the score, Navy, anchors aweigh!
Sail Navy down the field and sink the Army, sink the Army grey!

Get under way Navy, decks cleared for the fray;
We'll hoist true Navy Blue, So Army down your grey-y-y-y;
Full speed ahead, Navy; Army heave to;
Furl Black and Grey and Gold, and hoist the Navy, hoist the Navy Blue!

Blue of the Seven Seas; Gold of God's Great Sun
Let these our colors be till all of time be done, done, done,
By Severn's shore we learn Navy's stern call:
Faith, Courage, Service true, with Honor, Over Honor, Over All.
Revised Lyrics of 1926 by George D. Lottman:[1]
Stand, Navy, out to sea, Fight our battle cry;
We'll never change our course, So vicious foe steer shy-y-y-y.
Roll out the TNT, Anchors Aweigh. Sail on to victory
And sink their bones to Davy Jones, hooray!

Anchors Aweigh, my boys, Anchors Aweigh.
Farewell to college joys, we sail at break of day-ay-ay-ay.
Through our last night on shore, drink to the foam,
Until we meet once more. Here's wishing you a happy voyage home.
Revised Lyrics of 1997 by then-MCPON John Hagan which is used today by the Navy:[1]
Stand Navy out to sea, fight our battle cry!
We'll never change our course so vicious foes steer shy-y-y-y!
Roll out the TNT, anchors aweigh!
Sail on to victory, and sink their bones to Davy Jones, hooray!

Anchors Aweigh, my boys, Anchors Aweigh!
Farewell to foreign Shores, we sail at break of day-ay-ay-ay;
Through our last night ashore, drink to the foam,
Until we meet once more, here's wishing you a happy voyage home!

Blue of the mighty deep, Gold of God's great sun;
Let these our colors be, Till All of time be done, done, done, done;
On seven seas we learn, Navy's stern call:
Faith, courage, service true, With honor over, honor over all.
Bedevlia (Ukrainian: Бедевля or Bedevlya, Hungarian: Bedőháza, Yiddish: בידעוולא or Bedevle, Romanian: Bedeu) is a village in Zakarpattia Oblast (province) of western Ukraine. As of 2001[update], its population was 3,971.[1]
The village is located around 7 km south of Tiachiv. Administratively, the village belongs to the Tiachiv Raion, Zakarpattia Oblast.
Bedevlia was first mentioned in 1336 by the name of Bedeuhaza.
In 1336, Charles I of Hungary donated possession of the land boundary of Bedeuhaza to his royal servants the brothers Drag and Dragoş, the diploma refers to them as "servants of the king".[2]
Bedőháza belonged to Máramaros County until the Treaty of Trianon of 1920.
According to the official census of 2001, the population included 5423 inhabitants.
This article about a location in Zakarpattia Oblast is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
William Rose (born March 23, 1987) is a former American football fullback. He was an undrafted rookie free agent signed by the Titans. He played college football at Florida Atlantic.
Rose spent three years as a starter at Florida Atlantic with a strong senior season, rushing for 307 yards on 62 carries while adding 29 catches for 302 yards.[citation needed] Widely considered[by whom?] the most dominant fullback in the Sun Belt Conference, he averaged 5.0 yards per carry and 6.9 per reception. Rose had a strong performance against then-No. 24 Nebraska on Sept. 5, 2009, with three receptions for 59 yards - the second-highest total of his career.[citation needed]
Rose was an undrafted rookie free agent signed by the Tennessee Titans following the 2010 NFL Draft. However, he was waived due to a back injury before the season.[citation needed]
Madrid is served by highly developed transport infrastructure. Road, rail and air links are vital to maintain the economic position of Madrid as a leading centre of employment, enterprise, trade and tourism, providing effective connections with not only other parts of the region, but also the rest of Spain and Europe as a whole. Three quarters of a million people commute into the city to work,[1]: 66  and these and other local travellers have available a high-capacity metropolitan road network and a well-used public transport system based on the Metro, the Cercanías local railways, and a dense network of bus routes.[1]: 62–4 
In terms of longer-distance transport, Madrid is the central node of the system of autovías and of the high-speed rail network (AVE), which has brought major cities such as Seville and Barcelona within 2.5 hours travel time.[1]: 72–75  Madrid is also home to the Madrid-Barajas Airport, the fourth largest airport in Europe.[1]: 76–78  Madrid's location at the centre of the peninsula makes it a major logistical base.[1]: 79–80 
744,000 of the jobs in the city are held by residents of other municipalities, while 242,000 residents in the capital have jobs outside. Thus passenger flows are predominantly into and out of the city centre, although further decentralisation of economic activity to the outskirts is altering this pattern.[1]: 66 
From the point of view of sustainable transport, Madrid has performed well from the compactness of the city centre and middle-to-high-density peripheral nuclei, favouring public transport and pedestrian movement. The weak points appear in the "new peripheries", with low-density residential developments and dispersal of journey destinations, leading to higher car use.[1]: 64 
The outward expansion of Madrid after 1960 was supported by a growing network of radial roads. Above all these enabled commuter movements to the city centre. It also became necessary to create the first orbital autovía, the M30, which was intended to facilitate the passage of long-distance traffic, but became invaded by local traffic. The scheme implemented at the end of the 1980s consisted of nine radial autovías (those toward Burgos, Barcelona, Valencia, Andalucía, Toledo, Fuenlabrada, Extremadura, A Coruña and Colmenar Viejo) but just the one orbital route – the M-30. Three further orbital routes, each at a greater distance from the centre, were added in the 1990s and 2000s. These are designated M40, M45 and M50.[1]: 62–63 
The most recent big scheme was improvement of the M30. This road is the inner ring motorway of Madrid. Significant portions of M30 run underground and its urban motorway tunnels have sections of more than 6 km (3.73 mi) in length and 3 to 6 lanes in each direction. Between the south entry of the Avenida de Portugal tunnel and the north exit of the M-30 south by-pass there are close to 10 km (6.21 mi) of continuous tunnels. M40 is a ring motorway which borders Madrid at a mean distance of 10.07 kilometres (6.26 mi) and it has a total length of 63.3 km (39.33 mi). M45 is a partial ring around the city serving the metropolitan area of Madrid. It was built to help alleviate the congestion of the M40 from the southern to the north-eastern, runs between the M40 and the M50 where the two ring motorways are more separated. M50 is the outer of the Madrid orbital motorways and has a total length of 85 km (52.82 mi). It services mainly the metropolitan area at a mean distance of 13.5 km (8.39 mi).
The most important radial autovías of Madrid are:
More recently, four new radial tolled autopistas (named R-n instead of A-n), listed below, form a new mode of access to the capital, merging with their autovía counterparts further from Madrid. The main advantage to these roads is that they allow true fast travel from the first kilometer. These, however, have frequently been under-utilised, especially after the economic crisis of 2008.[1]: 63 
The investment in roads has resulted in a high-capacity metropolitan road network, facilitating communications between the outer municipalities, and resilient against closures due to works or accidents. However, the new orbital roads have favoured the dispersion and fragmentation of residential areas and areas of economic activity, resulting in an array of urban developments separate from each other, and very dependent on private vehicles.[1]: 63 
In 2018, Madrilenian roads were the safest in all of Spain with only 18 traffic fatalities per million inhabitants.[2]
Madrid has built up a public transport system, the fruit of long-term policies supporting the extension of the metro and Cercanías networks, the improvement of bus networks, the construction of 28 transport interchanges, and subsidies to public transport. 
A mobility survey in 2004 counted 14.5M journeys per day in the region, of which 10.0M were mechanised. 48.6% of the latter took place entirely within the city, 22.5% started or finished in the city, and 28.9% were entirely outside the city. Public transport was used for 69.1% of journeys within the central area, down to 27.3% in the outer periphery (corona regional). Metro accounted for 40% of journeys by public transport, bus 30%, interurban buses 10%, and Cercanías 10%.[1]: 65  More recent figures, for 2013, show passengers carried annually by bus 404M, Metro 563M, Cercanías 153M.[3]: 49  The inner city relies for transport mainly on the Metro and the EMT bus service. As regards the periphery, public transport is based above all on the Cercanías and interurban buses. The metro, too, is extending into parts of the outer area.[1]: 64 
This railway network is supported by an ever-expanding network of city buses. The overall length of the bus network of Madrid's Municipal Transport Corporation (Empresa Municipal de Transportes de Madrid, or EMT Madrid) at the end of 2013 stood at 3,690 km (2,293 mi), marking a 31% increase over the last eight years. These routes are serviced by a growing fleet of over 3,000 vehicles. The EMT network is very dense, with 217 routes and over 10,000 stops, and almost all the population of the municipality lives within 300m of a bus stop.[1]: 64  The buses in Madrid are the only public transport system available around the clock as the metro network closes down between 2.00 and 6.00 am. The night buses, also known as "Buhos" (Owls), operate from 11.45pm to 6.00am.[4] The heavy traffic in Madrid can in some cases make the city buses a fairly slow form of transportation but the city of Madrid has more than 90 km of special bus and taxi lines to help solve this issue.[5] Buses serving the outer areas are run by 33 private companies, coordinated by the Consorcio Regional de Transportes de Madrid. This network is fundamentally radial.[1]: 64 
Serving a population of some five million, the Madrid Metro (Metro de Madrid) is one of the most extensive and fastest-growing metro networks in the world.[6] With the addition of a loop serving suburbs to Madrid's south-west called Metrosur or Line 12, it is now the second longest metro system in Western Europe after London's Underground. After numerous extension projects in the early 2000s, it currently consists of 293 kilometres (182 mi) of mostly underground railway tracks and a total of 302 stations.
The system is the twelfth longest metro in the world,[7] though Madrid is approximately only the fiftieth most populous metropolitan area in the world. Its fast growth in the last 20 years has put it among the fastest growing networks in the world, on par with the Shanghai Metro and the Beijing Subway. Unlike normal Spanish road and rail traffic, Madrid Metro trains use left-hand running on almost all lines due to left-hand traffic being the norm in Madrid until 1924.
The metro network consists of 302 stations. It has 12 lines, one branch line and three Metro Ligero (light metro) tram lines. The network consists of diametrical lines, interconnected by one circular line (Line 6). It gives good coverage to much of the municipality – about 50% of the population live within 600m of a metro station.[1]: 64 
Spain's railway system, the Red Nacional de Ferrocarriles Españoles (Renfe) operates the vast majority of Spain's railways. Cercanías Madrid is the commuter rail service that serves Madrid and its metropolitan area. It is operated by Cercanías, the commuter rail division of Renfe. The total length spans 382 kilometres (237.4 miles). Main rail terminals are Atocha in the south and Chamartín in the north. The Cercanías network consists of 9 lines and 98 stations.[1]: 64 
Madrid has a single cable car, the Teleférico de Madrid, which links the Parque del Oeste with the Casa de Campo.[8]
The BiciMAD bike-sharing scheme was introduced in 2014.
The average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Madrid, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 62 min. 13% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 11 min, while 13% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 9.5 km, while 25% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.[9]
Although distant from other great centres of the EU, modern transport links are lessening this disadvantage. There has been large investment in transport infrastructure focussing on Madrid, including radial autovías, high-speed rail, and Madrid-Barajas airport.[1]: 70 
As noted above, Madrid is the focal point of the high-capacity autovía network, linking it with most parts of the country as well as France and Portugal. The road network is now regarded as largely complete, with attention turning to maintenance and road safety.[1]: 72–73 
Madrid ranks alongside Tokyo and Paris as one of the world's three largest high-speed railway hubs, acting as the focal point of the Spanish high-speed rail network, Alta Velocidad Española (AVE), inaugurated in 1992 with the opening of the Madrid-Seville line. There are now 2,900 km of AVE track, connecting Madrid with Barcelona, Málaga, Seville, Valencia, Valladolid, Zaragoza and 11 other provincial capitals. A tunnel has been constructed between the two terminal stations of Atocha and Chamartín, and Atocha has been expanded. The radial character and great extension of the AVE network confer on Madrid exceptional accessibility by rail: the journey time is only 2 hours 30 minutes to Barcelona and Seville. Connection from Madrid by AVE will further increase due to lines under construction to Galicia, Asturias, País Vasco, Alicante, Murcia and Extremadura.[1]: 74  About 23M passengers used the AVE in 2011. AVE has taken a large share of travel on the routes served: since the opening of the line to Seville, journeys by train between the two places increased from 14% to 50%, while air fell from 11% to 4% and road from 75% to 46%.[1]: 75–76 
The Yiwu - Madrid Railway line is the longest cargo goods railway line in the world, at 8,111 miles. It connects the Spanish capital to France, Germany, Poland, Belarus, Russia, Kazakhstan and China.[10][11]
Madrid–Barajas Airport (Aeropuerto de Madrid-Barajas) is Spain's busiest airport, and is the main hub of Iberia Airlines. Important to the city's economy as the largest business in Madrid, estimated to generate 44,000 jobs directly and 210,000 indirectly,[1]: 76  it serves as the main gateway to the Iberian peninsula from Europe, America and the rest of the world. In 2013 Barajas handled 39.74M passengers (down 20% from a peak of 49.87M in 2011),[12] of whom 70% were international travellers, in addition to 343.62M tonnes of freight.[3]: 48  The passenger volumes make it Spain's largest and busiest airport, and in the same year it was the world's 29th busiest airport and Europe's sixth busiest airport. Airfreight movements through Barajas are 52% those of all Spain, and 83.4% of international air freight.[1]: 78  A new fourth terminal has been constructed, which has significantly reduced delays and doubled the capacity of the airport to more than 70  million passengers per year. Two additional runways have also been constructed, making Barajas a fully operational four-runway airport that can handle 120 flights per hour.[1]: 77 
The airport is located within the city limits of Madrid, at 9 km (5.6 mi) from the city's financial district and 13 km (8.1 mi) northeast of the Puerta del Sol, Madrid's historic centre. It has good connections with the city centre by autovía, Cercanías and Metro. The airport name derives from the adjacent district of Barajas, which has its own metro station on the same rail line serving the airport.
The closed Ciudad Real Central Airport was intended to be the second airport for the city, linked to it by high-speed rail.
Aside from the local and regional bus commuting services, Madrid is also a node for long-distance bus connections to plenty of national destinations. The Estación Sur de Autobuses [es] in Méndez Álvaro, the busiest bus station in the country,[13] also features international bus connections to cities in Morocco as well as to diverse European destinations.[13]
The region concentrates 54% by value of the national transport of goods & logistical operations, employing 122,000. Favoured by central position, radiality of road & rail routes, importance of the airport, As well as being a large centre of production and consumption, it is a great distribution centre. The municipality concentrates two-thirds of the region's employment in the sector, but this is becoming more decentralised. A regional plan seeks to create nine new logistical centres outside the city, in order to decongest the central areas and rationalise distribution chains.[1]: 79–80
Buffalo Lake is a lake in Wright County, in the U.S. state of Minnesota.[1]
Buffalo Lake was named for its former abundance of buffalo fish.[2]

This article about a location in Wright County, Minnesota is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Cool Ruler is a 1978 studio album by Gregory Isaacs, his first released on the Virgin Records subsidiary Front Line. The Jamaican release was on Isaacs' African Museum imprint. The album was produced by Isaacs and mixed by Lancelot "Maxie" McKenzie at Channel One Studios in Kingston, Jamaica. Of the tracks on the album, "Let's Dance" had previously been released as a single.[2] Some of the tracks on the album are considered among the best ever recorded by Isaacs, although the album failed to give him the international breakthrough that had been anticipated.[2][3] The album title did, however, endure as Isaacs' nickname.[4] "John Public" was also released as a single.[2] The album formed the basis of the dub album Slum in Dub, released the same year. Cool Ruler was reissued on compact disc by Virgin in 2000.
All tracks by Gregory Isaacs except where noted
Hecatera is a moth genus in the family Noctuidae erected by Achille Guenée in 1852.

This Hadenini-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
GLONASS (ГЛОНАСС, IPA: [ɡɫɐˈnas]; Russian: Глобальная навигационная спутниковая система, tr. Global'naya Navigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema, lit. 'Global Navigation Satellite System') is a Russian satellite navigation system operating as part of a radionavigation-satellite service. It provides an alternative to Global Positioning System (GPS) and is the second navigational system in operation with global coverage and of comparable precision.
Satellite navigation devices supporting both GPS and GLONASS have more satellites available, meaning positions can be fixed more quickly and accurately, especially in built-up areas where buildings may obscure the view to some satellites.[1][2][3] GLONASS supplementation of GPS systems also improves positioning in high latitudes (north or south).[4]
Development of GLONASS began in the Soviet Union in 1976. Beginning on 12 October 1982, numerous rocket launches added satellites to the system until the completion of the constellation in 1995. In 2001, after a decline in capacity during the late 1990s, the restoration of the system was made a government priority, and funding increased substantially. GLONASS is the most expensive program of the Roscosmos, consuming a third of its budget in 2010.
By 2010, GLONASS had achieved full coverage of Russia's territory. In October 2011, the full orbital constellation of 24 satellites was restored, enabling full global coverage. The GLONASS satellites' designs have undergone several upgrades, with the latest version, GLONASS-K2, launched in 2023.[5]
In 2020, Glonass-BDD LLC checked the information system for analyzing and preventing traffic accidents and published a digital safety rating for 3,000 km of Russian roads.[6][7]
GLONASS is a global navigation satellite system, providing real time position and velocity determination for military and civilian users. The satellites are located in middle circular orbit at 19,100 km (11,900 mi) altitude with a 64.8° inclination and an orbital period of 11 hours and 16 minutes (every 17 revolutions, done in 8 sidereal days, a satellite passes over the same location[8]).[9][10] GLONASS's orbit makes it especially suited for usage in high latitudes (north or south), where getting a GPS signal can be problematic.[11][12]
The constellation operates in three orbital planes, with eight evenly spaced satellites on each.[10] A fully operational constellation with global coverage consists of 24 satellites, while 18 satellites are necessary for covering the territory of Russia. To get a position fix the receiver must be in the range of at least four satellites.[9]

GLONASS satellites transmit two types of signals: open standard-precision signal L1OF/L2OF, and obfuscated high-precision signal L1SF/L2SF.
The signals use similar DSSS encoding and binary phase-shift keying (BPSK) modulation as in GPS signals. All GLONASS satellites transmit the same code as their standard-precision signal; however each transmits on a different frequency using a 15-channel frequency-division multiple access (FDMA) technique spanning either side from 1602.0 MHz, known as the L1 band. The center frequency is 1602 MHz + n × 0.5625 MHz, where n is a satellite's frequency channel number (n=−6,...,0,...,6, previously n=0,...,13). Signals are transmitted in a 38° cone, using right-hand circular polarization, at an EIRP between 25 and 27 dBW (316 to 500 watts). Note that the 24-satellite constellation is accommodated with only 15 channels by using identical frequency channels to support antipodal (opposite side of planet in orbit) satellite pairs, as these satellites are never both in view of an Earth-based user at the same time.
The L2 band signals use the same FDMA as the L1 band signals, but transmit straddling 1246 MHz with the center frequency 1246 MHz + n × 0.4375 MHz, where n spans the same range as for L1.[13] In the original GLONASS design, only obfuscated high-precision signal was broadcast in the L2 band, but starting with GLONASS-M, an additional civil reference signal L2OF is broadcast with an identical standard-precision code to the L1OF signal.
The open standard-precision signal is generated with modulo-2 addition (XOR) of 511 kbit/s pseudo-random ranging code, 50 bit/s navigation message, and an auxiliary 100 Hz meander sequence (Manchester code), all generated using a single time/frequency oscillator. The pseudo-random code is generated with a 9-stage shift register operating with a period of 1 milliseconds.
The navigational message is modulated at 50 bits per second. The superframe of the open signal is 7500 bits long and consists of 5 frames of 30 seconds, taking 150 seconds (2.5 minutes) to transmit the continuous message. Each frame is 1500 bits long and consists of 15 strings of 100 bits (2 seconds for each string), with 85 bits (1.7 seconds) for data and check-sum bits, and 15 bits (0.3 seconds) for time mark. Strings 1-4 provide immediate data for the transmitting satellite, and are repeated every frame; the data include ephemeris, clock and frequency offsets, and satellite status. Strings 5-15 provide non-immediate data (i.e. almanac) for each satellite in the constellation, with frames I-IV each describing five satellites, and frame V describing remaining four satellites.
The ephemerides are updated every 30 minutes using data from the Ground Control segment; they use Earth Centred Earth Fixed (ECEF) Cartesian coordinates in position and velocity, and include lunisolar acceleration parameters. The almanac uses modified orbital elements (Keplerian elements) and is updated daily.
The more accurate high-precision signal is available for authorized users, such as the Russian military, yet unlike the United States P(Y) code, which is modulated by an encrypting W code, the GLONASS restricted-use codes are broadcast in the clear using only security through obscurity. The details of the high-precision signal have not been disclosed. The modulation (and therefore the tracking strategy) of the data bits on the L2SF code has recently changed from unmodulated to 250 bit/s burst at random intervals. The L1SF code is modulated by the navigation data at 50 bit/s without a Manchester meander code.
The high-precision signal is broadcast in phase quadrature with the standard-precision signal, effectively sharing the same carrier wave, but with a ten-times-higher bandwidth than the open signal. The message format of the high-precision signal remains unpublished, although attempts at reverse-engineering indicate that the superframe is composed of 72 frames, each containing 5 strings of 100 bits and taking 10 seconds to transmit, with total length of 36 000 bits or 720 seconds (12 minutes) for the whole navigational message. The additional data are seemingly allocated to critical Lunisolar acceleration parameters and clock correction terms.
At peak efficiency, the standard-precision signal offers horizontal positioning accuracy within 5–10 metres, vertical positioning within 15 m (49 ft), a velocity vector measuring within 100 mm/s (3.9 in/s), and timing within 200 nanoseconds, all based on measurements from four first-generation satellites simultaneously;[14] newer satellites such as GLONASS-M improve on this.
GLONASS uses a coordinate datum named "PZ-90" (Earth Parameters 1990 – Parametry Zemli 1990), in which the precise location of the North Pole is given as an average of its position from 1990 to 1995. This is in contrast to the GPS's coordinate datum, WGS 84, which uses the location of the North Pole in 1984. As of 17 September 2007, the PZ-90 datum has been updated to version PZ-90.02 which differ from WGS 84 by less than 400 mm (16 in) in any given direction. Since 31 December 2013, version PZ-90.11 is being broadcast, which is aligned to the International Terrestrial Reference System and Frame 2008 at epoch 2011.0 at the centimetre level, but ideally a conversion to ITRF2008 should be done.[15][16]
Since 2008, new CDMA signals are being researched for use with GLONASS.[17][18][19][20][21][22][23][24][25]
The interface control documents for GLONASS CDMA signals was published in August 2016.[26]
According to GLONASS developers, there will be three open and two restricted CDMA signals. The open signal L3OC is centered at 1202.025 MHz and uses BPSK(10) modulation for both data and pilot channels; the ranging code transmits at 10.23 million chips per second, modulated onto the carrier frequency using QPSK with in-phase data and quadrature pilot. The data is error-coded with 5-bit Barker code and the pilot with 10-bit Neuman-Hoffman code.[27][28]
Open L1OC and restricted L1SC signals are centered at 1600.995 MHz, and open L2OC and restricted L2SC signals are centered at 1248.06 MHz, overlapping with GLONASS FDMA signals. Open signals L1OC and L2OC use time-division multiplexing to transmit pilot and data signals, with BPSK(1) modulation for data and BOC(1,1) modulation for pilot; wide-band restricted signals L1SC and L2SC use BOC (5, 2.5) modulation for both data and pilot, transmitted in quadrature phase to the open signals; this places peak signal strength away from the center frequency of narrow-band open signals.[23][29]
Binary phase-shift keying (BPSK) is used by standard GPS and GLONASS signals. Binary offset carrier (BOC) is the modulation used by Galileo, modernized GPS, and BeiDou-2.
The navigational message of CDMA signals is transmitted as a sequence of text strings. The message has variable size - each pseudo-frame usually includes six strings and contains ephemerides for the current satellite (string types 10, 11, and 12 in a sequence) and part of the almanac for three satellites (three strings of type 20). To transmit the full almanac for all current 24 satellites, a superframe of 8 pseudo-frames is required. In the future, the superframe will be expanded to 10 pseudo-frames of data to cover full 30 satellites.[30]
The message can also contain Earth's rotation parameters, ionosphere models, long-term orbit parameters for GLONASS satellites, and COSPAS-SARSAT messages. The system time marker is transmitted with each string; UTC leap second correction is achieved by shortening or lengthening (zero-padding) the final string of the day by one second, with abnormal strings being discarded by the receiver.[30]
The strings have a version tag to facilitate forward compatibility: future upgrades to the message format will not break older equipment, which will continue to work by ignoring new data (as long as the constellation still transmits old string types), but up-to-date equipment will be able to use additional information from newer satellites.[31]
The navigational message of the L3OC signal is transmitted at 100 bit/s, with each string of symbols taking 3 seconds (300 bits). A pseudo-frame of 6 strings takes 18 seconds (1800 bits) to transmit. A superframe of 8 pseudo-frames is 14,400 bits long and takes 144 seconds (2 minutes 24 seconds) to transmit the full almanac.
The navigational message of the L1OC signal is transmitted at 100 bit/s. The string is 250 bits long and takes 2.5 seconds to transmit. A pseudo-frame is 1500 bits (15 seconds) long, and a superframe is 12,000 bits or 120 seconds (2 minutes).
L2OC signal does not transmit any navigational message, only the pseudo-range codes:
‡Glonass-M spacecraft produced since 2014 include L3OC signal 
Glonass-K1 test satellite launched in 2011 introduced L3OC signal. Glonass-M satellites produced since 2014 (s/n 755+) will also transmit L3OC signal for testing purposes.
Enhanced Glonass-K1 and Glonass-K2 satellites, to be launched from 2023, will feature a full suite of modernized CDMA signals in the existing L1 and L2 bands, which includes L1SC, L1OC, L2SC, and L2OC, as well as the L3OC signal. Glonass-K2 series should gradually replace existing satellites starting from 2023, when Glonass-M launches will cease.[25][32]
Glonass-KM satellites will be launched by 2025. Additional open signals are being studied for these satellites, based on frequencies and formats used by existing GPS, Galileo, and Beidou/COMPASS signals:
Such an arrangement will allow easier and cheaper implementation of multi-standard GNSS receivers.
With the introduction of CDMA signals, the constellation will be expanded to 30 active satellites by 2025; this may require eventual deprecation of FDMA signals.[34] The new satellites will be deployed into three additional planes, bringing the total to six planes from the current three—aided by System for Differential Correction and Monitoring (SDCM), which is a GNSS augmentation system based on a network of ground-based control stations and communication satellites Luch 5A and Luch 5B.[35][36]
Six additional Glonass-V satellites, using Tundra orbit in three orbital planes, will be launched starting in 2025;[5] this regional high-orbit segment will offer increased regional availability and 25% improvement in precision over Eastern Hemisphere, similar to Japanese QZSS system and Beidou-1.[37] The new satellites will form two ground traces with inclination of 64.8°, eccentricity of 0.072, period of 23.9 hours, and ascending node longitude of 60° and 120°. Glonass-V vehicles are based on Glonass-K platform and will broadcast new CDMA signals only.[37] Previously Molniya orbit, geosynchronous orbit, or inclined orbit were also under consideration for the regional segment.[19][30]
The main contractor of the GLONASS program is Joint Stock Company Information Satellite Systems Reshetnev (ISS Reshetnev, formerly called NPO-PM). The company, located in Zheleznogorsk, is the designer of all GLONASS satellites, in cooperation with the Institute for Space Device Engineering (ru:РНИИ КП) and the Russian Institute of Radio Navigation and Time. Serial production of the satellites is accomplished by the company Production Corporation Polyot in Omsk.
Over the three decades of development, the satellite designs have gone through numerous improvements, and can be divided into three generations: the original GLONASS (since 1982), GLONASS-M (since 2003) and GLONASS-K (since 2011). Each GLONASS satellite has a GRAU designation 11F654, and each of them also has the military "Cosmos-NNNN" designation.[38]
The true first generation of GLONASS (also called Uragan) satellites were all three-axis stabilized vehicles, generally weighing 1,250 kg (2,760 lb) and were equipped with a modest propulsion system to permit relocation within the constellation. Over time they were upgraded to Block IIa, IIb, and IIv vehicles, with each block containing evolutionary improvements.
Six Block IIa satellites were launched in 1985–1986 with improved time and frequency standards over the prototypes, and increased frequency stability. These spacecraft also demonstrated a 16-month average operational lifetime. Block IIb spacecraft, with a two-year design lifetimes, appeared in 1987, of which a total of 12 were launched, but half were lost in launch vehicle accidents. The six spacecraft that made it to orbit worked well, operating for an average of nearly 22 months.
Block IIv was the most prolific of the first generation. Used exclusively from 1988 to 2000, and continued to be included in launches through 2005, a total of 56 satellites were launched. The design life was three years, however numerous spacecraft exceeded this, with one late model lasting 68 months, nearly double.[39]
Block II satellites were typically launched three at a time from the Baikonur Cosmodrome using Proton-K Blok-DM2 or Proton-K Briz-M boosters. The only exception was when, on two launches, an Etalon geodetic reflector satellite was substituted for a GLONASS satellite.
The second generation of satellites, known as Glonass-M, were developed beginning in 1990 and first launched in 2003. These satellites possess a substantially increased lifetime of seven years and weigh slightly more at 1,480 kg (3,260 lb). They are approximately 2.4 m (7 ft 10 in) in diameter and 3.7 m (12 ft) high, with a solar array span of 7.2 m (24 ft) for an electrical power generation capability of 1600 watts at launch. The aft payload structure houses 12 primary antennas for L-band transmissions. Laser corner-cube reflectors are also carried to aid in precise orbit determination and geodetic research. On-board cesium clocks provide the local clock source. 52 Glonass-M have been produced and launched.
A total of 41 second generation satellites were launched through the end of 2013. As with the previous generation, the second generation spacecraft were launched three at a time using Proton-K Blok-DM2 or Proton-K Briz-M boosters. Some were launched alone with Soyuz-2-1b/Fregat.
In July 2015, ISS Reshetnev announced that it had completed the last GLONASS-M (No. 61) spacecraft and it was putting it in storage waiting for launch, along with eight previously built satellites.[40][41]
As on 22 September 2017, GLONASS-M No.52 satellite went into operation and the orbital grouping has again increased to 24 space vehicles.[42]
GLONASS-K is a substantial improvement of the previous generation: it is the first unpressurised GLONASS satellite with a much reduced mass of 750 kg (1,650 lb) versus the 1,450 kg (3,200 lb) of GLONASS-M. It has an operational lifetime of 10 years, compared to the 7-year lifetime of the second generation GLONASS-M. It will transmit more navigation signals to improve the system's accuracy — including new CDMA signals in the L3 and L5 bands, which will use modulation similar to modernized GPS, Galileo, and BeiDou. Glonass-K consist of 26 satellites having satellite index 65-98 and widely used in Russian Military space.[43][44]
The new satellite's advanced equipment—made solely from Russian components — will allow the doubling of GLONASS' accuracy.[9] As with the previous satellites, these are 3-axis stabilized, nadir pointing with dual solar arrays.[citation needed] The first GLONASS-K satellite was successfully launched on 26 February 2011.[43][45]
Due to their weight reduction, GLONASS-K spacecraft can be launched in pairs from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome launch site using the substantially lower cost Soyuz-2.1b boosters or in six-at-once from the Baikonur Cosmodrome using Proton-K Briz-M launch vehicles.[9][10]
The ground control segment of GLONASS is almost entirely located within former Soviet Union territory, except for several in Brazil and one in Nicaragua.[46][47][48][49]
The GLONASS ground segment consists of:[50]
Companies producing GNSS receivers making use of GLONASS:
NPO Progress describes a receiver called GALS-A1, which combines GPS and GLONASS reception.
SkyWave Mobile Communications manufactures an Inmarsat-based satellite communications terminal that uses both GLONASS and GPS.[53]
As of 2011[update], some of the latest receivers in the Garmin eTrex line also support GLONASS (along with GPS).[54] Garmin also produce a standalone Bluetooth receiver, the GLO for Aviation, which combines GPS, WAAS and GLONASS.[55]
Various smartphones from 2011 onwards have integrated GLONASS capability in addition to their pre-existing GPS receivers, with the intention of reducing signal acquisition periods by allowing the device to pick up more satellites than with a single-network receiver, including devices from: 
As of 17 February 2024[update], the GLONASS constellation status is:[63]
The system requires 18 satellites for continuous navigation services covering all of Russia, and 24 satellites to provide services worldwide.[citation needed] The GLONASS system covers 100% of worldwide territory.
On 2 April 2014, the system experienced a technical failure that resulted in practical unavailability of the navigation signal for around 12 hours.[64]
On 14–15 April 2014, nine GLONASS satellites experienced a technical failure due to software problems.[65]
On 19 February 2016, three GLONASS satellites experienced a technical failure: the batteries of GLONASS-738 exploded, the batteries of GLONASS-737 were depleted, and GLONASS-736 experienced a stationkeeping failure due to human error during maneuvering. GLONASS-737 and GLONASS-736 were expected to be operational again after maintenance, and one new satellite (GLONASS-751) to replace GLONASS-738 was expected to complete commissioning in early March 2016. The full capacity of the satellite group was expected to be restored in the middle of March 2016.[66]
After the launching of two new satellites and maintenance of two others, the full capacity of the satellite group was restored.
According to Russian System of Differentional Correction and Monitoring's data, as of 2010[update], precision of GLONASS navigation definitions (for p=0.95) for latitude and longitude were 4.46–7.38 m (14.6–24.2 ft) with mean number of navigation space vehicles (NSV) equals 7—8 (depending on station). In comparison, the same time precision of GPS navigation definitions were 2.00–8.76 m (6 ft 7 in – 28 ft 9 in) with mean number of NSV equals 6—11 (depending on station).
Some modern receivers are able to use both GLONASS and GPS satellites together, providing greatly improved coverage in urban canyons and giving a very fast time to fix due to over 50 satellites being available. In indoor, urban canyon or mountainous areas, accuracy can be greatly improved over using GPS alone. For using both navigation systems simultaneously, precision of GLONASS/GPS navigation definitions were 2.37–4.65 m (7 ft 9 in – 15 ft 3 in) with mean number of NSV equals 14—19 (depends on station).
In May 2009, Anatoly Perminov, then director of the Roscosmos, stated that actions were undertaken to expand GLONASS's constellation and to improve the ground segment to increase the navigation definition of GLONASS to an accuracy of 2.8 m (9 ft 2 in) by 2011.[67] In particular, the latest satellite design, GLONASS-K has the ability to double the system's accuracy once introduced. The system's ground segment is also to undergo improvements. As of early 2012, sixteen positioning ground stations are under construction in Russia and in the Antarctic at the Bellingshausen and Novolazarevskaya bases. New stations will be built around the southern hemisphere from Brazil to Indonesia. Together, these improvements are expected to bring GLONASS' accuracy to 0.6 m or better by 2020.[68] The setup of a GLONASS receiving station in the Philippines is also now under negotiation.[69]
Rosario is a district of the Desamparados canton, in the San José province of Costa Rica.[1][2]
Rosario has an area of 14.77 km2[3] and an elevation of 1,321 metres.[1]
Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos[4]
Centro Centroamericano de Población[5]
For the 2011 census, Rosario had a population of 3,088 inhabitants.[6]
The district is covered by the following road routes:
This Costa Rican location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 1981–82 Detroit Red Wings season was the 50th season as the Red Wings, 56th overall for the franchise.
The National Hockey League realigned their divisions into geographically closer groupings. The Red Wings were the only team to remain in the Norris Division from the previous season, while the division itself was moved from the Prince of Wales Conference to the Campbell Conference, trading places with the Patrick Division. The Red Wings were joined in the Norris by the Chicago Black Hawks, Toronto Maple Leafs, St. Louis Blues, Minnesota North Stars, and Winnipeg Jets.
[1]Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals againstNote: Teams that qualified for the playoffs are highlighted in bold.
Vs. Norris Division
Vs. Smythe Division

Vs. Wales Conference
Vs. Adams Division
Vs. Patrick Division


This was the fourth straight season the Red Wings failed to make the Stanley Cup playoffs, having last qualified in 1978.
[3]
Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; +/- = Plus-minus PIM = Penalty minutes; PPG = Power-play goals; SHG = Short-handed goals; GWG = Game-winning goals;
      MIN = Minutes played; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; GA = Goals against; GAA = Goals-against average;  SO = Shutouts; 
Detroit's draft picks at the 1981 NHL Entry Draft held at the Montreal Forum in Montreal.
Berengar Fredol or Bérenger Frédol (1250 – 11 June 1323) was a French canon lawyer and Cardinal-Bishop of Frascati.[1][2]
He was canon and precentor of Béziers, secular Abbot of Saint-Aphrodise in the same city, canon and archdeacon of Corbières, and canon of Aix. He later held the chair of canon law at the University of Bologna, and was appointed chaplain to Pope Celestine V, who in 1294 consecrated him Bishop of Béziers.
Fredol was one of those entrusted by Pope Boniface VIII with the compilation of the text of the Decretals, known as the Liber Sextus. He played a prominent role in the negotiations between the pope and Philip the Fair, and attended the council held in Rome in 1302.
In 1305 Pope Clement V made him a cardinal, with the title of Sts. Nereus and Achilleus. The pope appointed him Major Penitentiary in (1306), and in 1309 raised him to the Cardinal-Bishopric of Frascati. The same pontiff employed him in investigating the charges made against the Knights Templars, and also in the enquiry into the peculiar tenets entertained at that time by a section of the Franciscan Order.
On the death of Clement V, Fredol was proposed by the French cardinals for the vacant papal chair, but without success. He continued in favour with the new pope, Pope John XXII, by whose order he deposed the Abbot of Gerald and Hugo, Bishop of Cahors, for conspiring against the pope's life.
He became Dean of the Sacred College of Cardinals in April 1321.
The works of Fredol are chiefly concerned with canon law, and include "Oculus", a commentary on the "Summa" of Henry of Segusio (Basle, 1573), "Inventarium juris canonici", and "Inventarium speculi judicialis", abridged from a work of Durand, Bishop of Mende.
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Berenger Fredoli". Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
Astegania is a genus of moths in the family Geometridae.

This Caberini article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Zaboršt pri Šentvidu (pronounced [zaˈbɔɾʃt pɾi ʃɛnˈtʋiːdu]; German: Saworst)[2] is a settlement northeast of Šentvid pri Stični in the Municipality of Ivančna Gorica in central Slovenia. The area is part of the historical region of Lower Carniola. The municipality is now included in the Central Slovenia Statistical Region.[3]
The name of the settlement was changed from Zaboršt to Zaboršt pri Šentvidu in 1953.[4] In the past the German name was Saworst.[2]
A small roadside chapel-shrine west of the settlement is dedicated to the Sacred Heart of Jesus and was built in the early 20th century.[5]

This article about the Municipality of Ivančna Gorica in Slovenia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
St. Ouen's Manor is a manor house in the parish of St. Ouen, Jersey, and is the traditional home of the Seigneur of St. Ouen, and the ancestral home of the De Carteret family.[1][2]
The earliest record of the house dates from 1135.[3]
As a part of the 1940 Jersey local elections, the manor was offered to the victor, Edward Campbell. However, Campbell became disillusioned with the idea, and declined.[4]
The house and grounds remain intact today, and the house is a private home for the De Carteret family.  It is occasionally open to the public.

This Jersey building or structure article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
John Augenstein (born October 7, 1997) is an American professional golfer.
In high school, Augenstein was a Kentucky individual state champion and team state finalist at Owensboro Catholic High School.[1]
In college, Augenstein was a first team All-American for the Vanderbilt Commodores.[2]
Augenstein earned an invitation to the 2020 U.S. Open and 2020 Masters Tournament by finishing runner-up at the 2019 U.S. Amateur.[3] At the U.S. Open, he missed the cut.[4] He was one of two amateurs to make the cut at the Masters and finished tied for 55th.[5][4]
He turned professional shortly after the Masters.[6]
Source:[4]
Amateur
Source:[4]
Aglaia lepidopetala is a species of plant in the family Meliaceae. It is found in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea.

This Meliaceae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Leonard Waldemar Hoff (22 May 1886 – 16 July 1947) was a Norwegian railway director.
He was hired in Norsk Hovedjernbane in 1906, and was a traffic inspector from 1916. In 1933 he was promoted to district director in Drammen, and in 1939 he was promoted to director-general of the Norwegian State Railways.[1] During the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany he was deposed. He applied to get his position back after the occupation's end, but in 1946 he rescinded the claim as he was hired as regional director of the European Central Inland Transport Organization.[2] He died in July 1947.[1]
His daughter Anne-Marie Hoff, born 1915, married Trygve Meinstad, a former resistance member who became the Norwegian State Railways district director in Oslo in 1962, and chaired Østfold Bilruter and Hadeland Bilselskap.[3]

This Norwegian biographical article related to a government official is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 2019 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations qualification was a men's under-20 football competition which decided the participating teams of the 2019 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations.
Players born 1 January 1999 or later are eligible to participate in the competition. A total of eight teams qualified to play in the final tournament, including Niger who qualified automatically as hosts.[1]
Apart from Niger, the remaining 53 members of CAF were eligible to enter the qualifying competition, and a total of 40 national teams were in the qualifying draw, which was announced on 26 February 2018.[2][3]
Qualification ties are played on a home-and-away two-legged basis. If the aggregate score is tied after the second leg, the away goals rule is applied, and if still tied, the penalty shoot-out (no extra time) is used to determine the winner.[4]
The schedule of the qualifying rounds is as follows.[3]
The bracket of the draw was announced by the CAF on 26 February 2018.[2][3]
The seven winners of the third round qualify for the final tournament.
Mauritania won 2–1 on aggregate.
Guinea-Bissau won 1–0 on aggregate.
Algeria won 5–2 on aggregate.
Benin won on walkover after Liberia withdrew.[5]
Gabon won 5–2 on aggregate.
1–1 on aggregate. Rwanda won on away goals.
Burundi won 3–0 on aggregate.
Uganda won 8–1 on aggregate.
0–0 on aggregate. Tanzania won 6–5 on penalties.
Mozambique won 6–0 on aggregate.
1–1 on aggregate. Malawi won on away goals.
1–1 on aggregate. Botswana won on away goals.
3–3 on aggregate. Mauritania won on away goals.
Nigeria won 3–2 on aggregate.
Ghana won 2–0 on aggregate.
Benin won 3–2 on aggregate.
Burkina Faso won 6–4 on aggregate.
Gabon won 3–2 on aggregate.
Zambia won 3–1 on aggregate.
Burundi won 3–1 on aggregate.
1–1 on aggregate. Cameroon won 5–4 on penalties.
Mali won 6–2 on aggregate.
South Africa won 4–1 on aggregate.
Malawi won 5–3 on aggregate.
Congo won 4–1 on aggregate.
0–0 on aggregate. Senegal won 7–6 on penalties.
Winners qualify for 2019 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations.
Nigeria won 6–1 on aggregate.
Ghana won 4–2 on aggregate.
Burkina Faso won 4–1 on aggregate.
Burundi won 3–1 on aggregate.
Mali won 4–1 on aggregate.
South Africa won 2–0 on aggregate.
Senegal won 6–3 on aggregate.
The following eight teams qualify for the final tournament.
The Lower Dock Street Street drill hall is a former military installation in Newport, Wales.
The building was designed as the headquarters of the 3rd Monmouthshire Rifle Volunteer Corps and was completed in 1867.[1] This unit combined with other units to become the 1st Monmouthshire Rifle Volunteer Corps in 1880 and evolved to become the 2nd Volunteer Battalion, The South Wales Borderers in 1885 and the 1st Battalion, The Monmouthshire Regiment in 1908.[2] The battalion was mobilised at the drill hall in August 1914 before being deployed to the Western Front.[3] The battalion evolved to become the 68th (The Monmouthshire Regiment) Searchlight Regiment, Royal Artillery in 1940, the 609th Regiment, Royal Artillery (The Monmouthshire Regiment) in 1945 and the 603rd (Mixed) Heavy Anti-Aircraft Regiment, Royal Artillery (1st (Rifle) Battalion The Monmouthshire Regiment) in 1947.[2]
In 1955, the presence at the drill hall was reduced to a single battery, P (1st Monmouthshire) Battery, 283rd Field Regiment, a unit which evolved, in 1961, into R (1st Monmouthshire) Battery, 282nd (Glamorgan/Monmouth) Field Regiment.[2] In 1967, further reductions took place and, when the Monmouthshire line was taken up by 211 (South Wales) Battery, 104th Light Air Defence Regiment, that unit was based at Raglan Barracks.[4] The Lower Dock Street drill hall was decommissioned and subsequently used by various religious and community organisations.[5] It is a Grade II listed building.[6]
The following is a list of presidents of Saltillo Municipality in the state of Coahuila, Mexico. The municipality includes the city of Saltillo.
Walter Joseph Meserve (born March 10, 1923) is an American professor emeritus, playwright, critic, and  author of books on theater.[1][2] He is a Fellow of the National Endowment for the Humanities.[3]
Meserve's An Outline History of American Drama has been called "a highly valuable "vest pocket" history of the American drama which should be on the shelf of every teacher of contemporary theater, every critic, and every student with an interest in modern drama".[4] The American Historical Review said his book about American drama during the Andrew Jackson era "brings much of Quinn's carefulness and Odell's enthusiasm to embroidering their work", but added that "Meserve's gestures to the new are disappointingly fainthearted".[5]

This article about an American writer is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sir Roger Mostyn, 5th Baronet (13 November 1734 – 26 July 1796) was a Welsh landowner and politician who sat in the House of Commons for 38 years from 1758 to 1796.
Mostyn was the son of Sir Thomas Mostyn, 4th Baronet of Mostyn Hall, Flintshire and his wife Sarah Western, daughter and co-heiress of Robert Western of London.[1] He was educated at Westminster School from 1745 to 1751 and matriculated at Christ Church, Oxford in 1751.[2]  On the death of his father on 24 March 1758 he succeeded to the baronetcy. 
He married Margaret Wynn, daughter of Rev. Hugh Wynn, DD, prebendary of Salisbury on 19 May 1766. She was heiress of her father and two uncles  Robert Wynne and Evan Lloyd Vaughan.[1] He inherited a number of estates, including the seat at Mostyn, in both Wales and Cheshire.[3] and £60,000 from his unmarried uncle, Savage Mostyn.
Mostyn was returned unopposed as Member of Parliament for Flintshire at a by-election on 26 April 1758 replacing his late father. His family had the dominant electoral interest in Flintshire and he was returned unopposed at general elections in 1761, 1768, 1774, 1780, 1784, 1790 and 1796.[4] Mostyn was a Whig whose voting record became a concern to his constituents, and in 1784 his brother-in-law, Thomas Pennant of Downing, threatened to create an opposition although nothing came of it.[4]
Mostyn served as Lord Lieutenant of Flintshire from 1761 to his death and Custos Rotulorum of Flintshire from 1772 to his death. He was a Lieutenant-Colonel in the Flintshire Militia.[4]
Mostyn died on 26 July 1796, "much regretted and esteemed for his many public and private virtues". He and his wife Margaret had a son Thomas and 6 daughters.  He was succeeded in the baronetcy and Parliamentary seat by Thomas, who died unmarried, causing the baronetcy to become extinct. Of his daughters, Charlotte married Sir Thomas Swymmer Mostyn-Champneys, 2nd Bt, Elizabeth married Sir Edward Pryce Lloyd, 2nd Bt and Anna-Maria married Sir Robert Williames Vaughan, 2nd Bt, while Catherine, Essex and Maria Bridget were unmarried.[1]
Edwin James Rees (1899 – after 1925) was a Welsh professional footballer who played as an inside right in the Football League for Charlton Athletic and Bradford City.
Born in Llanelly,[2] Rees spent his early career with Ton Pentre and Charlton Athletic.[3] He joined Bradford City in May 1925,[2] making 2 league appearances for the club,[4] before being released in 1926.[2]

This biographical article related to association football in Wales, about a forward, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 1994 Grand Prix de Tennis de Toulouse was a men's tennis tournament played on indoor hard courts in Toulouse, France that was part of the World Series of the 1994 ATP Tour. It was the thirteenth edition of the tournament and was held from 3 October until 9 October 1994.[2]

Champion seeds are indicated in bold text while text in italics indicates the round in which those seeds were eliminated.
Matthew Breen is an American journalist and editor living in New York, NY, United States. He is the editorial director at Logo.[1] He was previously the editor-in-chief  of The Advocate, a national LGBT news magazine,[2] and deputy editor at Out. He was previously a freelance film critic, and the program director for the 2001 Austin Film Festival,[3] and an associate film programmer for the 2002 IFP/West Los Angeles Film Festival, and media manager for the 1998 and 1999 Sundance Film Festivals.
Breen's petition demanding the pardon of the approximately 49,000 men convicted of "gross indecency" laws in the United Kingdom gathered nearly 500,000 signatures. U.K. campaigners and the relatives of Alan Turing delivered 10 Downing Street in 2015. The Alan Turing Law was enacted in 2017.
The AACTA Award for Best International Film is an award presented by the Australian Academy of Cinema and Television Arts (AACTA), a non-profit organisation whose aim is to "identify, award, promote, and celebrate Australia's greatest achievements in film and television".[1] The award is presented at the annual AACTA International Awards, which hand out accolades for achievements in feature films, regardless of where the film was made.[2]
From 1992 to 2004, a similar award was presented by the Australian Film Institute (AFI), the Academy's parent organisation. It was known as the AFI Award for Best Foreign Film and was handed out at the annual Australian Film Institute Awards (known as the AFI Awards).[citation needed]
The winner is highlighted first and highlighted in boldface.
Lyells is an unincorporated community in Richmond County, in the U.S. state of Virginia.
The Rochester House was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1991.[1]
37°59′49″N 76°43′44″W﻿ / ﻿37.99694°N 76.72889°W﻿ / 37.99694; -76.72889

This Richmond County, Virginia state location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.For articles relating to the City of Richmond, use Template:RichmondCityVA-geo-stub
Rumelyana Boncheva Stefanova (Bulgarian: Румеляна Бончева; born 25 April 1957 in Varna) is a Bulgarian former rower who competed in the 1980 Summer Olympics.[1]
This article about a Bulgarian Olympic medalist is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article relating to Bulgarian rowing is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
St John's United Reformed Church is a church in New Barnet, London. The church was formed by a union of St Augustine's Presbyterian Church and New Barnet Congregational Church in 1963.[1]
The church has a distinctive modern design that was influenced by the membership of Jon Finlayson ARIBA. It won an award from the Civic Trust in 1970. The redevelopment of the site was funded partly from the sale of the old New Barnet Congregational Church site in nearby Station Road around 1967.[2]
 Media related to St John's United Reformed Church at Wikimedia Commons
51°38′53″N 0°10′42″W﻿ / ﻿51.6481°N 0.1782°W﻿ / 51.6481; -0.1782

This article about a church or other Christian place of worship in London is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Fitri Rosdiana is an Indonesian futsal Pivot.[1][2][3]
Jaya Kencana Angels
AFF Futsal Championship Winner (1) : 2016

This biographical article related to women's association football in Indonesia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Prithviraj Sukumaran (/pr̩it̪ʰʋiɾaːd͡ʒ/; born 16 October 1982) is an Indian actor, director, producer and playback singer primarily working in Malayalam language films.[1] He has also done  Tamil, Hindi and Telugu films.[2] He acted in more than 100 films in a variety of roles and has received several awards including a National Film Award, three Kerala State Film Awards, a Tamil Nadu State Film Award and a South Filmfare Award.[3]
Prithviraj made his acting debut with Nandanam (2002), a commercial success.[4] He established himself as a leading Malayalam actor with Classmates (2006), the highest-grossing Malayalam film of the year. The Kerala State Film Award for Best Actor for Vaasthavam made him its youngest recipient at 24. He played a musician in the Tamil romantic comedy Mozhi (2007) and ventured into playback singing with Puthiya Mukham (2009) before earning his second Kerala State Film Award for Best Actor for medical drama Ayalum Njanum Thammil and biographical film Celluloid.[5]
In 2010, Prithviraj joined the production house August Cinema to then headline and co-produce Urumi and Indian Rupee (both 2011); the latter won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Malayalam and Kerala State Film Award for Best Film.[6] He won a Tamil Nadu State Film Award for Best Villain for Kaaviya Thalaivan (2014) before appearing in Ennu Ninte Moideen (2015) and Ezra (2017). After leaving August Cinema in 2017, he launched Prithviraj Productions independently that firstly backed 9 (2019). Prithviraj made his directorial debut with Lucifer (2019), which was the highest-grossing Malayalam film ever until June 2023. He has since starred in Driving License (2019), Ayyappanum Koshiyum (2020), Jana Gana Mana (2022) Kaduva (2022) and Salaar: Part 1 – Ceasefire (2023).
Prithviraj was born 16 October 1982[7] to the actors Sukumaran and Mallika Sukumaran[8] at Thiruvananthapuram.[9]
His family was settled in Tamil Nadu at the time, where he attended Shrine Vailankanni Senior Secondary School in T. Nagar, Chennai, and St. Joseph's Boys School, Coonoor.[10] When the family moved to Kerala, he attended the NSS Public School, Perunthanni.[11] He then moved to St. Mary's Residential Central School, Poojappura where he acted in plays and skits for the school's Annual Day Celebrations. He completed his education at Sainik School, Kazhakootam and Bhavan's Senior Secondary School, Kodunganoor. He also participated and won several debates and elocution competitions while in school.[4][12] Prithviraj won the title of "Mr LA Fest" in the Annual Inter-School arts festival hosted by Loyola School, Thiruvananthapuram in successive years and is the only person to date to win that title twice.[13]
After school, he studied for a bachelor's degree in Information Technology at the University of Tasmania in Australia. During this time, he auditioned for film director Ranjith and won the lead role in the film Nandanam.[4] It was film director Fazil who introduced him to Ranjith.[4] His elder brother Indrajith Sukumaran and sister-in-law Poornima Indrajith are also film actors.
In 2001, Prithviraj underwent a screen-test by director Fazil for one of his projects. Even though that project never materialised, Fazil recommended him to director Ranjith, who was planning his second directorial, Nandanam (2002), Prithviraj underwent screen-test for the role and got selected. Though Nandanam was the first film that Prithviraj acted in, it was released after Nakshathrakkannulla Rajakumaran Avanundoru Rajakumari and Stop Violence. Prithviraj then appeared in films directed by Lohithadas, Vinayan, Kamal and Bhadran. Shyamaprasad, who cast him in lead role in his film Akale, said that Prithvi's advantages are his talent and intelligence irrespective of his box office successes.[14]
In 2005, Prithviraj Sukumaran debuted in Tamil through Kana Kandaen.[15] In 2006, Prithviraj co-starred with actor Bhagyaraj's daughter Saranya Bhagyaraj in Parijatham. It has been acclaimed as a hit and gave the actor a turning point in his Tamil film career.[16]
In 2006, he played the role of Sub Inspector Solomon Joseph in Vargam, then appeared in Vaasthavam, for which he received the Kerala State Film Award for Best Actor.[17] He was the youngest actor to win the award.[18] The same year he starred in Lal Jose's Classmates. In 2007, he starred in Chocolate, directed by Shafi.[19] In 2007, Prithviraj co-starred in Mozhi. He also starred in Satham Podathey and Kannamoochi Yenada in the same year.
In 2008, he starred in Thalappavu, (directed by Madhupal) and Thirakkatha (directed by Ranjith), playing pivotal characters in both. One of the reviews of Thalappavu describes it as the coming-of-age film for prithviraj describing the "spartan dignity" he brought to his portrayal of the Naxalite Joseph.[20] The Sify review of Thirakkatha describes it as a "genuine attempt that keeps the viewer engaged until the end".[21] Both Thalappavu and Thirakkatha shared the award for the best film in the Film Critics Award for 2008. He also made a special appearance in Anjali Menon's Manjadikuru.  In 2008, Prithviraj starred in Vellithirai, the Tamil remake of Udayananu Tharam. Rediff described his performance: "Prithviraj ... makes the best of his assets – his expressive eyes, which glint in fury, soften with love, or brim over with frustrated tears."[22]
In 2009, the success of Prithviraj Sukumaran's Puthiya Mukham (directed by Diphan) lead to him being called a "Superstar".[23][24] His other releases in 2009 were Robin Hood (directed by Joshy) and the anthology film Kerala Cafe. In 2010, Sukumaran's notable films were Pokkiri Raja and Anwar, directed by Amal Neerad. He played a cop in Mani Ratnam's Raavanan in 2010 with Vikram playing the main protagonist and his performance was critically acclaimed.[25] Prithviraj Sukumaran debuted in Telugu through Police Police, which was released in 2010.
In 2011, Prithviraj produced his first film, the multilingual Urumi. Other releases in Malayalam include City of God, Manikyakallu, Veettilekkulla Vazhi and Indian Rupee. Reviewers praised Prithviraj Sukumaran for his performance in Indian Rupee, the critic at Nowrunning.com, who described it as his "career best performance".[26] In 2012, his major releases were Hero, Molly Aunty Rocks! and Ayalum Njanum Thammil, along with cameo roles in Aakashathinte Niram and Manjadikuru. 
Prithviraj debuted in Bollywood through Aiyyaa, directed by Sachin Kundalkar. Aiyyaa, which was jointly produced by Anurag Kashyap and Viacom 18[27] released on 12 October 2012.
In 2013, Prithviraj had three releases Celluloid, Mumbai Police and Memories, all of which were critical and commercial successes. He portrayed J.C. Daniel in Celluloid, for which he won his second Kerala State Film Award for Best Actor.[5] His second hindi film Aurangzeb, directed by Athul Sabharwal,[28] released on 17 May 2013. His performance was highly praised.
In 2014, Prithviraj's first major release was London Bridge, which failed at box office; followed by 7th Day, which turned out to become a commercial success. He also did a cameo role in Munnariyippu. His third release of the year, Sapthamashree Thaskaraha was praised by critics and audiences alike.  Prithviraj played one of the main characters in director Vasanthabalan's big budget period film Kaaviya Thalaivan, in which he co-stars with Siddharth. 

His first release of 2015 was Picket 43. His second movie of 2015 was Shyamaprasad's Ivide. Prithviraj was widely praised for his acting in the movie. Varun Blake (Prithviraj's character in Ivide) is considered to be one of his best performances till the date. He next appeared in Lijo Jose Pellissery's Double Barrel, which was appreciated for its novelty. His most successful film of the year was Ennu Ninte Moideen, which narrated the tragic love tale of Kanchanamala and Moideen that happened in the 1960s in Mukkam, a riverside village in Kerala. The film opened to critical acclaim, with several critics regarding it as one of the greatest romance films made in Malayalam.[29][30] His role as Moideen in the film is regarded as one of the best in his career.[31] His next releases Amar Akbar Anthony and Anarkali became a major commercial success at the box office, thus completing a hat-trick of hits ending the year.Prithviraj had four releases in 2016, debuting with Paavada, a family drama in which he played a drunkard. It met with a positive response and was a commercial success, grossing ₹ 16.34 crore from Kerala box office and ran for 100 days in theatres. His following releases Darvinte Parinamam and James & Alice met with mixed reviews, the former told the story of an ordinary man dealing with a local goon and the latter was a family drama that discussed the matter of life and death. His last release, Oozham, an action thriller directed by Jeethu Joseph was a commercial success, earning ₹ 15.25 crore in 25 days. He played a demolition expert.[32] In 2017, he starred in the horror film Ezra, which became one of the highest-grossing Malayalam films of the year, grossing ₹ 50 crore worldwide, with ₹ 33 crore from Kerala box office.[33] He continued the year with Tiyaan, Adam Joan and Vimaanam. Both Tiyaan and Vimaanam were moderate box office hits. Adam Joan collected around 20 crores at the box office and emerging as a superhit. His third hindi film was Naam Shabana in 2017, in which he played the antagonist.[34]
His first release of 2018 was Roshini Dinakar's romantic drama My Story, a commercial failure at the box office. His next two releases were Anjali Menon's drama Koode and Nirmal Sahadev's crime drama Ranam. Koode received critical acclaim and was a commercial success, while Ranam met with positive critical response but performed moderately at the box office. In 2018, Prithviraj launched his independent production house, Prithviraj Productions. In 2019, he produced and starred in the science fiction film 9. The film received critical praise for its novelty, actors' performance, direction and cinematography. It was a box office hit.[35]
Prithviraj made his directorial debut in 2019 with Lucifer, starring Mohanlal. The film became the highest-grossing Malayalam film ever.[36] He then starred in Driving License (2019), Ayyappanum Koshiyum (2020), Jana Gana Mana (2022), Kaduva (2022) and Salaar: Part 1 – Ceasefire (2023), all of which emerged as box office successes. However, Brother's Day, Kaapa, and Gold failed at the box office. 
Besides, Prithviraj has had many of his Malayalam films dubbed into Telugu such as Sivapuram in 2006, which was the dubbing of Ananthabhadram and ATM in 2010, which was the dubbing of Robin Hood. The dubbed version of Urumi released in August 2011.
Prithviraj married BBC India reporter Supriya Menon on 25 April 2011 in a private ceremony held in Palakkad.[37][38] They have a daughter, born in 2014. His family resides in Thevara, Kochi.[39]
Prithviraj Productions is an Indian film production and distribution company based in Kochi, established in 2017 by Prithviraj and his wife Supriya Menon. Since then, it has produced and distributed over 10 films.[40][41]
The Burlington Gymnasium, in Burlington, Colorado, was built during 1938–1941 as a New Deal works project.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2007.[1]
It is a two-story 137 by 70 feet (42 m × 21 m) building, with a balcony level over its open gymnasium space.  Its curtain walls and partition walls were built of concrete blocks made by the Works Progress Administration, except for some basement partition walls where adobe blocks were used.[2]
There were problems during its construction including that the original installation of floor joists was deemed to be unsafe for longterm usage, which caused delay in completion.[2]

This article about a property in Colorado on the National Register of Historic Places is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ettrick Bay is a wide, tidal, sandy coastal embayment with a chord of 1 mile (2 km), on a 218° bearing, located on the west coast of the Isle of Bute in the Firth of Clyde, within council area of Argyll and Bute in Scotland.[2] The bay was used for practice training for the D-Day landings.[3]
The bay faces the Kyles of Bute, a narrow sea channel that separates the northern end of the Isle of Bute from the Cowal peninsula, and offers views of Isle of Arran.[1]  The bay is bounded by a coarse sandy beach which is popular with tourists and local people. During low tide, the water's edge can be up to 500 metres (1,600 ft) from the high tide mark.[1] A number of rivers flow into the bay, including the Glenmore Burn, Ettrick Burn, Drumachloy Burn and St Colmac Burn.
At the north end of the bay, which mainly consists of rocky outcrops, lies the Kildavanan Point, with the feature known as Macallister's Gun, located close to the point. At the south end of the bay is the rocky outcrop called Island McNeil, which forms the outer boundary of the bay.
The surrounding area is mostly rural with agriculture being the main land use. Average rainfall for the region is 392mm, compared to 331mm in Scotland as a whole.[1]  Windy Hill is the highest peak on the Isle of Bute. Located directly to the north of the bay, it is 278 metres (912 ft). Other small hills surrounding the bay include: 
To the east and south of the bay, all the hills are shallow.
3.25 miles (5 km) miles directly south of Ettrick Bay lies the sheltered bay of St Ninian's Bay, which is named after the 8th-century Christian saint Saint Ninian. The island of Inchmarnock can be seen from Ettrick Bay and lies on a south by south west bearing of around 200° at a distance of 3.25 miles (5 km) from the bay, and is located at the northern end of the Sound of Bute in the Firth of Clyde on the same longitude as St Ninian's Bay.
The nearest town to the bay is Rothesay, which is 2.5 miles (4 km) to the east. The small coastal village of Port Bannatyne is located 2 miles (3 km) to the north east, on Ardbeg point of Kames Bay. Kames Castle and, 500 metres (1,600 ft) to the north, Wester Kames Castle stands near to Kames Bay.
A Bronze Age stone circle is situated at St Colmac Farm, which is located south of the B875 road to Ettrick Bay from Port Bannatyne, about 0.6 miles (1 km) northeast of the shore of Ettrick Bay. A Celtic cross that is often associated with the stone circle is located at the ruined 19th-century and Category C listed St Colmac's Church, about 100 metres (330 ft) from the stone circle in a north west direction. A well-known tourist attraction, and often associated together, they were built several thousand years apart.[3] The church's manse, today known as Cnoc an Raer, is contemporary with the former place of worship. At the bridge over Glenmore Burn lie concrete frames built for the British Army for exercises on Inchmarnock. These frames represented practice landing craft for D-Day landings.[3]
Iakob Kajaia (Georgian: იაკობ ქაჯაია; born September 28, 1993) is a Georgian Greco-Roman wrestler.[1] He competed in the men's Greco-Roman 130 kg event at the 2016 Summer Olympics, in which he was eliminated in the quarterfinals by Sergey Semenov.[2][3] He is a European bronze medallist (2018).
He lost his bronze medal match in the 130 kg event at the 2022 World Wrestling Championships held in Belgrade, Serbia.[4][5] He won one of the bronze medals in the 130 kg event at the 2023 European Wrestling Championships held in Zagreb, Croatia.

This biographical article relating to a Georgian sport wrestler or wrestling coach is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Penicillium kananaskense is an anamorph species of the genus of Penicillium which was isolated from soil of a forest in Alberta in Canada.[1][3][4][5]
André Mattoni (born Andreas Leo Otto Edler von Mattoni; 24 February 1900 – 11 January 1985) was an Austrian actor. His paternal grandfather was Heinrich Kaspar von Mattoni, founder of the Mattoni mineral water company. His mother was Adele Juliana Pupp-Mattoni from the Pupp hotelier family.
Mattoni was originally cast in Fritz Lang's Metropolis (1927) but was replaced by Gustav Fröhlich four weeks into shooting.

This article about an Austrian actor is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Daisy is the nickname of the following people:
The Cavalcade Of Golf was a PGA Tour event that was played at the Shackamaxon Country Club in Scotch Plains, New Jersey.[1] It was played for only a single year – 1955.[2]
The tournament was won by Cary Middlecoff by two strokes over Sam Snead. It was Middlecoff's sixth and last victory of a career year that also included wins at the Masters and Western Open.[2]
The purse was the richest ever offered at the time for a PGA Tour event held east of Chicago,[1] and the second largest purse the pros would play for that year. The purse was $50,000 with $10,000 as the winner's share.[2]
The course was designed by A. W. Tillinghast and opened in September 1916.[2]
The Lentz Center for Asian Culture was located at 1155 Q Street in downtown Lincoln, Nebraska. Part of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, the Lentz Center recognized the rich and varied cultures of Asia. The center was meant to embody the university's commitment to fostering multicultural understanding through an appreciation of Asian cultures.
In 2010 the collection closed to public visitation, but the collection was digitized for viewing online.[1] It is now known as the Lentz Collection for Asian Culture.
Santiago Andrés Cafiero (born 30 August 1979) is an Argentine political scientist and politician, currently serving as a National Deputy elected in Buenos Aires Province. He previously served as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship (2021–2023) and as Cabinet Chief (2019–2021) in the cabinet of President Alberto Fernández.
Santiago Andrés Cafiero was born on 30 August 1979[1] in San Isidro, in Buenos Aires Province, son of Juan Pablo Cafiero, who was Minister of Social Development during the presidency of Fernando de la Rúa in 2001, and María Luisa Bianchi. Cafiero's grandfather, Antonio Cafiero, held many important political posts, including the governorship of Buenos Aires, and also briefly served as Chief of the Cabinet of Ministers under Eduardo Camaño.[2][3]
He began his political activism in the Peronist Youth in San Isidro. Cafiero studied political science at the University of Buenos Aires Faculty of Social Sciences, and then went on to receive a Master's Degree on public policy from Torcuato di Tella University.[1][4]
Cafiero was elected president of the local Justicialist Party in his native San Isidro in 2008, and was the party's mayoral candidate in 2011 and 2015.[5] From 2009 to 2017, he was a councillor in San Isidro's municipal council.[4]
During the governorship of Daniel Scioli in Buenos Aires, Cafiero worked as a consultant in the Undersecretariat of Municipal Affairs (2007–2008), and then went on to serve as the Province's Director of Industry from 2008 to 2010, Undersecretary of Industry, Commerce and Mining from 2010 to 2011, Vice-minister of Social Development and Undersecretary of Social Policies from 2011 to 2014, and Undersecretary of Modernization from 2014 to 2015.[6]
Cafiero was Florencio Randazzo's campaign chief in Randazzo's 2017 senatorial run.[4]
Ahead of the 2019 general election, Alberto Fernández, the Justicialist Party's presidential candidate, appointed Cafiero as his campaign chief and formed the Grupo Callao think tank alongside him.[7][8]
On 29 October 2019, Fernández won the presidential election in the first round with 48.2% of the vote. On 6 December 2019, in the official announcement of his incoming cabinet's composition, President-elect Fernández named Cafiero as his Cabinet Chief, a post he assumed on 10 December 2019.[9]
On 20 September 2021, Cafiero was appointed as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship in replacement of Felipe Solá, and was replaced as Cabinet Chief by Juan Manzur. Manzur's appointment and Cafiero's designation as Foreign Minister were part of a cabinet reshuffle following the government's poor showings in the 2021 legislative primary elections.[10][11]
Cafiero is married and has four sons and one daughter.[12][13] He co-founded the Punto de Encuentro ("Meeting Point") publishing house in 2015.[4]
Mack Donald Jenkins (born April 22, 1965) is a former professional baseball coach who last coached for the Cincinnati Reds.
Jenkins was a minor league baseball pitcher in the Reds organization from 1986 through 1988. He was the winning pitcher in the game that ended the longest winning streak in the history of professional baseball.[1]
Jenkins served as pitching coach for the Louisville Bats of the Triple-A International League.[2] He was named assistant pitching coach of the Reds in 2012.
On July 4, 2016, Jenkins was named pitching coach for the Cincinnati Reds, replacing Mark Riggins. He was fired on April 19, 2018, along with manager Bryan Price, due to poor pitching.[3]
Count Yorinaga Matsudaira (松平 頼寿, Matsudaira Yorinaga, 10 December 1874 – 13 September 1944) was a Japanese political figure of the late Meiji through early Shōwa periods, and served as President of the House of Peers in the Diet of Japan.
Yorinaga Matsudaira was the eighth son of Matsudaira Yoritoshi, the former daimyō of Matsuyama Domain in Shikoku. His mother, Chiyoko, was the daughter of Ii Naosuke and his wife was the daughter of Tokugawa Akitake, head of the Mito branch of the Tokugawa clan.
He attended the Gakushūin Peer's School, and with the sponsorship of Ōkuma Shigenobu, graduated from the law school of Waseda University. district of Tokyo, as the eldest son of Tokugawa Iesato. In 1909 he became a member of the House of Peers, and continued to serve as a member every year (except for a hiatus between 1911 and 1914) until his death.
A strong supporter of education, he donated a large property in downtown Tokyo to create the Hongo Gakuin school.
In 1933, he was made Vice-President of the House of Peers, breaking with the precedent that only men with the rank of princes or marquis could service in the highest level positions. Four years later, when Fumimaro Konoe became Prime Minister of Japan, Yorinaga Matsudaira became the President of the House of Peers. He died while in office, and was posthumously awarded the Order of the Rising Sun, 1st class with Paulownia Flowers. His grave is at the Yanaka Cemetery in Tokyo. His nephew Yorihiro Matsudaira succeeded him in his peerage.
Yorinaga Matsudaira was also a noted collector of miniature bonsai, and served as honorary president of the Kofuku Bonsai Association. His collection eventually reached a thousand specimens, but many were destroyed after his death during World War II. Around two hundred specimens were preserved by his widow, who wrote an article for the 1953 Handbook on Dwarf Potted Trees issued by the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. In 1975, she published a book in Japanese,  Matsudaira Mame Bonsai Collection Album, which included photos of the couple.
[1]
Philip Bury Duncan (1772–1863) was keeper of the Ashmolean Museum at the University of Oxford.[1]
He was born in 1772 at South Warnborough, Hampshire, where his father was rector.  He was educated at Winchester College (where he afterwards founded the Duncan Prizes), and at New College, Oxford, of which he became a fellow in 1792. He graduated B.A. 1794, M.A. 1798. Among the school and college friends with whom he continued intimate were Archbishop William Howley, Bishop Richard Mant, and Sydney Smith. [1]
He was called to the bar in 1796, and for a few years attended the home and the western circuits. From 1801 until his death, he lived much at Bath, and promoted many local scientific and philanthropic schemes. 
He was elected president of the Bath United Hospital in 1841. [1]
In 1826, he was made keeper of the Ashmolean Museum, in succession to his elder brother, John Shute Duncan, author of Hints to the Bearers of Walking Sticks and Umbrella, anonymous, 3rd edition 1809; Botano Theology, 1825; and Analogies of Organised Beings, 1831. 
Philip Duncan increased the Ashmolean zoological collections, and himself gave many donations. He also presented to the university with casts of antique statues and various models. Duncan advocated the claims of physical science and mathematics to a prominent place in Oxford studies. He was instrumental in establishing at Oxford, as also at Bath, a savings bank and a society for the suppression of mendacity. 
He resigned his keepership in 1855, and was then given the honorary degree of D.C.L. [1]
Duncan died on 12 November 1863, at Westfield Lodge, his home, near Bath, aged 91. He was unmarried.[1]
He was a man of simple habits and refined tastes. Archbishop Howley said of him and his brother: 
I question whether any two men with the same means have ever done the same amount of good.[1]
He had published in 1836 A Catalogue of the Ashmolean Museum, octavo, and in 1845 had printed at considerable cost a Catalogue of the manuscripts bequeathed by Ashmole to the University of Oxford (edited by W. H. Black).[1]
Among Duncan's other publications were:[1]
The rock gunnel (Pholis gunnellus), or butterfish, is a species of marine ray-finned fish belonging to the family Pholidae, the gunnels. This species is found in the coastal waters of the North Atlantic Ocean and in the Atlantic part of the Arctic Ocean.
The rock gunnel was first formally described in 1758 as Blennius gunnellus in the 10th edition of the Systema Naturae by Carl Linnaeus with the type locality given as the Atlantic.[2] In 1777 by the Italian naturalist Giovanni Antonio Scopoli proposed the genus Pholis and Linnaeus's Blennius gunnellus was later designated to be its type species.[3] The specific name gunnellis is a latinisation of an English, possibly originating in Cornwall, local name for this species, gunnel.[4]
The rock gunnel is often mistaken for an eel due to its flattened, elongated body. Fully grown adults can reach 30 cm in length.  A long dorsal fin spans the body from just behind the head, supported by soft spiny rays. Its anal fin begins roughly midway along the body. The head is rather small with its lower jaw protruding and mouth turned upwards. Coloration is highly variable, ranging from hues of yellow-green to brown to crimson. A row of 9-13 dark spots, each surrounded by a pale ring, lines the dorsal fin.[5] The butterfish has a maximum published standard length of 25 cm (9.8 in).[1]
The rock gunnel is found in the coastal waters of North America and Europe. It ranges from Labrador and Greenland to Delaware Bay in the West Atlantic, and from the Kanin Peninsula to the Bay of Biscay in the East Atlantic.[1] Within its range it is found from the intertidal zone to depths of over 100 m. The rock gunnel uses habitat sheltered by rocks and algae both above and below the waterline, likely to protect it from its natural predators, which include seabirds, fish, and marine mammals.[6]
The rock gunnel may remain above the waterline at low tide, sheltered beneath rocks and algae, and can breathe air if necessary.[6] They are frequently encountered on rocky shorelines, and splash around noticeably when uncovered. Within its North American range, the rock gunnel disappears from the intertidal during winter, likely to avoid freezing air temperatures.[7] Their diet is made up of small crustaceans, polychaetes, mollusks and the eggs of fish. The female lays the eggs in a large mass on the seabed and this is closely guarded until the larvae hatch. The butterfish spawns from November to January, the female laying between 80 and 200 eggs in a ball-like mass placed beneath a stone or in the empty shell of a bivalve.[1]
Escoussans is a commune in the Gironde department in southwestern France.

This Gironde geographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Syrianarpia is a genus of moths of the family Crambidae.

This Scopariinae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
"If U Were My Man" is a song by German singer–songwriter Sarah Connor from her debut album, Green Eyed Soul (2001). It was the only single not released in Connor's native Germany.
"If U Were My Man" was originally set to be the first single from Green Eyed Soul, but "Let's Get Back to Bed - Boy!" was chosen instead. It was one of the first songs Connor recorded to shop to major labels and created quite a bit of buzz around her.
The song was released as the album's fourth and final single on 8 July 2002, and did not manage to chart noticeably. A promo was made for Polish release though it apparently never occurred. Rumors that "If U Were My Man" would be released in Germany and the rest of Europe were eventually proven false once Connor decided to embark on her first tour instead.
Maserà di Padova is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Padua in the Italian region of Veneto, located about 40 kilometres (25 mi) southwest of Venice and about 11 kilometres (7 mi) south of Padua. As of 1 January 2023, it had a population of 9,126 and an area of 17.58 square kilometres (6.79 sq mi).[3]
Maserà di Padova borders the following municipalities: Abano Terme, Albignasego, Cartura, Casalserugo, Due Carrare.
Giorgio Perlasca, Righteous Among the Nations, grew up in Maserà.


This article on a location in Veneto is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Boerhavia aggregata Pav. ex Choisy
Nyctaginia cockerellae A.Nelson
Nyctaginia ovata Choisy
Nyctaginia is a monotypic genus of flowering plants belonging to the family Nyctaginaceae. The only species is Nyctaginia capitata (devil's bouquet).[1]
Its native range is Southern Central USA to Northeastern Mexico .[1]
The mixed pairs BC4 boccia event at the 2020 Summer Paralympics was contested between 2 and 4 September 2021 at the Ariake Gymnastics Centre. Since this event is a mixed event, both genders, male and female, competed in the event.
The competition started off with a pools stage, containing 2 pools with 5 teams each, and was followed by the semifinals where the winners moved to the finals to fight for gold and the losers went to the bronze medal match to fight for bronze.
Each team contains three athletes but only two will be used when play. All team has a male (M) and female (F) athlete.[1]

The pools (or can be known as a group stage) were played between 2 and 3 September 2021. The top two teams in each pool qualified for the semi-finals.[2]
The knockout stage was played on 4 September.
Słoszewy [swɔˈʂɛvɨ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bobrowo, within Brodnica County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.[1]


This Brodnica County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kaj Nyström is a Swedish mathematician currently at Uppsala University and was awarded the Göran Gustafsson Prize by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.[1][2][3]

This article about a Swedish mathematician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Men's 90 kg competition at the 2021 World Judo Championships was held on 10 June 2021.[1][2]
The sums listed bring the total prizes awarded to 57,000€ for the individual event.[1]
Accessories
The first-generation Surface (launched as Surface with Windows RT,[2] later marketed as Surface RT)[3] is a hybrid tablet computer developed and manufactured by Microsoft. Announced in June 2012, it was released in October 2012, and was the first personal computer designed in-house by Microsoft.
Positioned as a competitor to Apple's iPad line, Surface included several distinctive features, including a folding kickstand which allowed the tablet to stand at an angle, and the availability of optional attachable protective covers incorporating a keyboard. Surface served as the launch device for Windows RT, a limited version of Windows 8 designed for devices based on ARM architecture, with the ability to run only Metro-style Windows applications developed for it and distributed through the Windows Store.
Surface was met with mixed reviews. Although praised for its hardware design, accessories, and aspects of its operating system, criticism was directed towards the performance of the device, as well as the limitations of the Windows RT operating system and its application ecosystem. Sales of the Surface were poor, with Microsoft cutting its price worldwide and taking a US$990 million loss in July 2013 as a result. It was succeeded by the Surface 2 in 2013, with the newer Windows RT 8.1, which was also made available for the original Surface. Support for the OS ended on January 10, 2023.[4]
The device was announced at a press-only event in Los Angeles and was the first PC which Microsoft had designed and manufactured in-house.[5] The Surface only supports WiFi for wireless connectivity, with no cellular variant. The tablet went on sale in eight countries - Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The Surface Pro was launched later.[6]
The Surface tablet has a display of 1366x768 pixels on a five-point multi-touch touchscreen with Gorilla Glass 2 (LTL106AL01). The device measures 10.81 by 6.77 by 0.37 inches (27.46 cm × 17.20 cm × 0.94 cm) and is made from magnesium. The kickstand, USB port, and a magnetic keyboard interface give the Surface ability to add a wireless mouse, external keyboard, or a thumb drive. There is also a slot for a microSD card to add up to 200 GB.
Surface runs Windows RT, which is preloaded with Windows Mail, Calendar, Contacts, Sports, News, Travel, Finance, Camera, Weather, Reader, SkyDrive, Store, Photos, Skype (no longer supported), Maps, Games, Messaging, Bing, Desktop, and Xbox Music and Xbox Video Windows Store applications, and supports Microsoft Office Home and Student 2013 RT, which includes Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and OneNote within the Desktop application. Windows RT only allows installing Windows Store applications. Windows RT is compiled entirely for the ARM instruction set architecture.
A major update to Windows RT was launched on October 17, 2013, called Windows RT 8.1. This update brought many improvements to the Surface, such as an overhauled Mail app, more Bing apps like Reading List, and OneDrive (updated from SkyDrive). It also brought support for larger tiles, a help and tips app, Internet Explorer 11, Outlook 2013 RT, changes to PC Settings, lock screen photo slideshow, infinitely re-sizable apps, a Start button, and speed improvements. Later, an update to Windows RT 8.1, dubbed Windows RT 8.1 Update[7] added a search button to the Start Screen, as well as the taskbar on the Modern UI, and a title bar for Modern UI apps.
Surface launched with two accessories, the Type Cover and the Touch Cover. The Touch Cover came in white, black, magenta, red, and cyan, while the Type Cover came in black. Limited edition Touch Covers were released featuring laser-etched artwork on the back. The Touch and Type Covers double as keyboards and magnetically attach to the Surface's "accessory spine".
Later, adapters for micro-HDMI to HDMI [8] and VGA were released.
CNET praised the design of Surface, noting that it " Looked practical without being cold, and just feels like a high-quality device that Microsoft cut few corners to make." The kickstand was also praised for its feel and quality, while both the kickstand and the keyboard cover accessories were also noted for having a "satisfying" clicking sound when engaged or attached. The covers were deemed "essential to getting the complete Surface experience", with the touch cover praised for having a more "spacious" typing area than other tablet keyboard attachments, and for being usable after getting used to its soft feel. The Type Cover was recommended over the Touch Cover due to its higher quality and more conventional key design. Surface's display was praised for its larger size and widescreen aspect ratio over the iPad line but panned for having "muted" color reproduction. While the touchscreen-oriented aspects of the Windows 8 interface were praised for being "elegant", albeit harder to learn than Android or iOS, the Windows RT operating system was criticized for still requiring the use of the mouse-oriented desktop interface to access some applications and settings not accessible from within the "Metro" shell, and for its poor application ecosystem, with Windows Store's state on-launch compared to "a ghost town after the apocalypse." The poor performance of the Surface, especially in comparison to other Tegra 3-based tablets, also led to disapproval. In conclusion, it was felt that "paired with a keyboard cover, the Surface is an excellent Office productivity tool (the best in tablet form) and if your entertainment needs don't go far beyond movies, TV shows, music, and the occasional simple game, you're covered there as well", but that assuming Windows Store would eventually improve its application selection, "both it and the Surface's wonky performance keep a useful productivity device from reaching true tablet greatness."[9]
Sales of the Surface and other Windows RT devices were poor; in July 2013, Microsoft reported a loss of US$900 million due to lackluster sales of the Surface, and cut its price by 30% worldwide.[10][11][12][13][14] Microsoft's price cut did result in a slight increase of market share for the device; by late-August 2013, usage data from the advertising network AdDuplex (which provides advertising services within Windows Store apps) revealed that Surface's share had increased from 6.2 to 9.8%.[15]

Official website
L.A. to Miami is the debut studio album by American country music singer Keith Whitley. It was released in October 1985 by RCA Records. The album includes the singles "I've Got the Heart for You," "Miami, My Amy," "Ten Feet Away," "Homecoming '63" and "Hard Livin'," all of which charted on Billboard Hot Country Singles (now Hot Country Songs) between 1985 and 1987. Also included are two songs that later became singles for other artists: "On the Other Hand" and "Nobody in His Right Mind Would've Left Her," which were Number Ones for Randy Travis and George Strait, respectively, in 1986. The latter was previously a No. 25 country hit for its writer, Dean Dillon, in 1980.
Al Campbell of Allmusic gave the album two stars out of five, saying that it "suffers as a whole from a lack of tempo change."[1]
Adapted from liner notes.[2]
Hykeham is a southern suburb of Lincoln, Lincolnshire in England.
It is served by Hykeham railway station.
53°11′N 0°35′W﻿ / ﻿53.183°N 0.583°W﻿ / 53.183; -0.583

This Lincolnshire location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Igor Nikolayevich Zakharov (Russian: Игорь Николаевич Захаров; born 8 June 1966) is a Russian former professional football referee and player.
As a player, he made his professional debut in the Soviet Second League in 1984 for FC Zorkiy Krasnogorsk.[1]
He had several memorable incidents in his referee career. On 25 July 2006 in the game between FC Dynamo Moscow and FC Moscow he gave FC Moscow a corner kick. Dynamo goalkeeper Sergei Ovchinnikov thought that FC Moscow player touched the ball last and aggressively attacked Zakharov, at one point grabbing his shirt. Ovchinnikov was sent off and received a long disqualification. That turned out to be the last professional game Ovchinnikov played.[2] On another occasion a dog ran onto a field in the game Zakharov was officiating. Zakharov showed the dog the yellow card. On 27 July 2008 after a game between FC Shinnik Yaroslavl and FC Terek Grozny Shinnik wanted to test Zakharov for alcohol, claiming he refereed the game while drunk. Zakharov refused to go through the test.[3]
He was an international FIFA referee from 2005 to 2008, retiring from refereeing after the 2008 season.

This biographical article related to a Russian association football defender born in the 1960s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Alucita anticoma is a moth in the family Alucitidae. It is found in New Guinea.[1][2]
This species belongs to a group of species with white forewings and has a wingspan of 17mm.[3]

This article relating to the superfamily Alucitoidea is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ernest T. Eaton (September 11, 1877 – August 23, 1957) was an American educator and politician.
Ernest T. Eaton was born in Atkinson, Maine into a family of English descent, as one of four children to Thomas O. Eaton and Delia Bolster. In 1886, the family moved to Iowa, where Ernest attended Lenox College and the University of Iowa. He began teaching at Oak Park High School in Des Moines, later serving the school system as high school principal and superintendent. Eaton left for Montana in 1902 to become superintendent of Deer Lodge, Montana schools and founding principal of Powell County High School.
In 1904, Eaton, his brother Lewis, and two merchants, John Losekamp and Christian Yegen founded a private high school. Eaton left Powell County on January 1, 1906 and was named financial director of the College of Montana. There, he worked alongside Lewis, the institution's president. The Eaton brothers left the College of Montana in 1908, devoting more funding to the reorganization of the high school they had established with the help of Losekamp and Yegen. The school was reopened as Billings Polytechnic Institute in July 1908.[1][2]
Ernest Eaton first served in the Montana House of Representatives between 1915 and 1919. He won a third term in 1923, and was elected to the Montana Senate in 1925. He stepped down from the state senate in 1933. The next year, Eaton became lieutenant governor of Montana under Frank Henry Cooney. He was succeeded by Elmer Holt, and later served in the same position between 1941 and 1949, alongside governor Sam C. Ford.[3] Eaton died at the age of 79, on August 23, 1957.[4]
He was survived by his wife, Augusta Valiton, whom he had married in 1911, and two children.[5][6]
A service provider (SP) is an organization that provides services, such as consulting, legal, real estate, communications, storage, and processing services, to other organizations. Although a service provider can be a sub-unit of the organization that it serves, it is usually a third-party or outsourced supplier. Examples include telecommunications service providers (TSPs), application service providers (ASPs), storage service providers (SSPs), and internet service providers (ISPs).[citation needed] A more traditional term is service bureau.
IT professionals sometimes differentiate between service providers by categorizing them as type I, II, or III.[1] The three service types are recognized by the IT industry although specifically defined by ITIL and the U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996.
Type III SPs provide IT services to external customers and subsequently can be referred to as external service providers (ESPs)[2] which  range from a full IT organization/service outsource via managed services or MSPs (managed service providers) to limited product feature delivery via ASPs (application service providers).[3]

This article about a corporation in the service industry is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Charles Landseer RA (12 August 1799 – 22 July 1879) was an English painter, mostly of historical subjects.
He was born in London on 12 August 1799,[1] the second son of the engraver John Landseer, and the elder brother of the animal painter, Sir Edwin Landseer. He trained under his father, and the painter Benjamin Robert Haydon. He was awarded the silver palette of the Royal Society of Arts for a drawing of Laocoon in 1815,[2]  and in 1816 he entered the Royal Academy Schools where he was taught by Henry Fuseli.[3]
In 1823 he accompanied Sir Charles Stuart de Rothesay on a diplomatic mission to Portugal and Brazil. Many of the drawings he made on the journey were shown at the British Institution in 1828.[3][4]
He became an associate in of the Royal Academy in 1837, and a full academician in 1845. In 1851,  he was appointed Keeper of the Royal Academy, a post requiring him to teach in the "Antique School".[5] He remained in the position until 1873.[1]
Most of his pictures were of subjects from British history, or from literature.  He  paid close attention to the historical accuracy of the accessories and details in his paintings.[5] His works included The Meeting of Charles I. and his Adherents before the Battle of Edgehill,[5] Clarissa Harlowe in the Prison Room of the Sheriff's Office (1833, now in the collection of the Tate Gallery),[6] The Pillaging of a Jew's House in the Reign of Richard I (1839, Tate Gallery)[6]  and  The Temptation of Andrew Marvel (1841).[5] While under Haydon's instruction he also made a series of detailed anatomical drawings.[7]
He died in London on 22 July 1879,[1] leaving 10,000 guineas to the Royal Academy to fund scholarships.[3]
Arenzana de Arriba is a village in the province and autonomous community of La Rioja, Spain. The municipality covers an area of 5.92 square kilometres (2.29 sq mi) and as of 2011 had a population of 34 people.[2]

This article about a location in La Rioja, Spain is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Trichopterigia kishidai is a species of moth of the family Geometridae first described by Yazaki in 1987.[1] It is found in Taiwan.[2]

This Larentiinae moth related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Vigonovo (from Latin vicus novus, "new village") is a town and comune (municipality) in the Metropolitan City of Venice, Veneto, Italy.
Before the year 1000 BC the territory was inhabited by Etruscans, Euganeans and Paleoveneti. 
It is believed that around 1000 BC after the destruction of Troy by the Greeks, the members of a tribe of Paphlagonia (province of Asia Minor), called Heneti (hence the name Veneti), landed on the Adriatic coasts and settled there after having expelled the locals Etruscans.
In 186 BC, at the time of the Roman Empire, the Via Annia was built by the Roman Consul Aemilius Lepidus, which started from Padua, reached Tombelle, passed through Vigonovo, continued through San Pietro di Stra up to Altinum and Aquileia.[citation needed]
Until medieval times, the town was called Sarmazza after a settlement of Sarmatians (an ancient people coming from the East).
Vigonovo is located in the most extreme point of the area of the Venetian villas that have made the Riviera del Brenta known.
With its frazioni (boroughs) of Galta, Tombelle and Celeseo, Vigonovo is extending for about 13 square km west of the Brenta river on flat land. Extremely rich in waterways, in addition to the Brenta, the territory is crossed by the Piovego canal and minor others.
The town borders the municipalities of Fossò and Stra in Venice, and those of Noventa Padovana, Padua, Sant'Angelo di Piove di Sacco and Saonara in the Province of Padua.
Vigonovo is located south of the strada statale SR11 [it].
This article on a location in Veneto is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Devmanus 2 (transl. God Figure 2) is an Indian Marathi language crime thriller television series which aired on Zee Marathi.[1] The show premiered from 19 December 2021 by replacing Ti Parat Aaliye.[2] It is produced by Shweta Shinde and directed by Raju Sawant under the banner of Vajra Production.[3] It starred Kiran Gaikwad and Asmita Deshmukh in lead roles.[4]
Devi Singh, who wreaked havoc and destroyed the lives of many innocent people, is back with a vengeance, with a new target and a plan deadlier than before.[5]
"Lips Don't Lie" is a song by American singer Ally Brooke, featuring American rapper A Boogie wit da Hoodie. The single was released on May 24, 2019, through labels Atlantic Records and Latium Entertainment as the then-second single for Brooke's upcoming debut solo album.[2] The song was written by Artist Dubose, Oscar Görres, Brooke, Elof Loelv, and Madison Love,[3] and produced by Loelv and Görres.[4]
Brooke said that she first heard the song in August 2018, and she wanted to record it as soon as she heard the first few seconds. She recorded the song on October 29, 2018.[5] On May 15, 2019, Brooke posted a screenshot of herself listening to the song.[6]
Rolling Stone wrote that "Lips Don't Lie" is a midtempo song featuring a "piano-driven beat beneath smoky vocals from Brooke".[7] Brooke sings about "her lover’s kiss revealing all" while A Boogie wit da Hoodie "tells a different story on his verse, channeling jealousy and hurt feelings".[7] While A Boogie wit da Hoodie does curse in the song, the explicit lyrics were censored in the final version of the song.
The official music video for "Lips Don't Lie" was released alongside the single, on May 24, 2019.[8] The video features Brooke sporting a number of lipstick shades and jewel-encrusted nails, singing the lyrics of the song to a zoomed-in camera; A Boogie wit da Hoodie also appears throughout the video and raps his verse later on. The cover art for the single was taken from a scene in the music video, as Brooke sports the same nails and one of the several lipsticks she wears in the video on the cover. As of February 2020, the video has accumulated over 10 million views on YouTube.
Xenolimosina is a genus of flies belonging to the family of the Lesser Dung flies.[4]
This article related to members of the muscomorph flies superfamily Sphaeroceroidea is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
London House is a building in the city of Johannesburg constructed by the firm of Emily and Williamson. The Application for Approval of Plans was received by the City Engineer's Department on 18 March 1935 and approved ten months later 20 January 1936. The building was completed on 6 March 1936 as entered on the valuation roll, meaning it took two months to complete the building or construction to the building was started without approval of plans.[1]
This building is part of the Johannesburg Art Deco legacy. It was designed as a shop to street and office building. However over the years it has been converted to rental apartments.

This article about a South African building or structure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Thomas Alderson (1909–1962)[2] was a footballer who played in the Football League for Chester, Darlington, Leeds United, Luton Town.[3]
This biographical article related to association football in England, about a forward born in the 1900s, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Mbumbuni is a town in Makueni County, Mbooni, Kenya. It is located approximately 98 km from Nairobi. It hosts several primary and secondary schools, including Kyang'ondu Primary and Secondary Schools, Usalala Primary and Secondary Schools, Iviani Primary and Secondary Schools, Kitondo School. Kisau Girls' School, Kisau Education center, Kisau All stars Academy, Lung'u Primary and Secondary Schools, Treasure Academy, among many others.
Mbumbuni was formerly the headquarters for Mbooni East District of the now-defunct Eastern Province.


This Eastern Province (Kenya) location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Coleophora resupina is a moth of the family Coleophoridae. It is found in China.[1]

This article on a moth of the family Coleophoridae is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Boletus ferrugineus Frost (1874)
Tylopilus ferrugineus is a bolete fungus in the family Boletaceae native to North America. Originally described by Charles Christopher Frost in 1874 as Boletus ferrugineus, it was placed in the genus Tylopilus by Rolf Singer in 1947.[2]

This Boletales-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Williamson Bluff is a flat-topped bluff more than 1,000 metres (3,300 ft) high near the head of Trail Inlet on the east coast of Graham Land. The upper part of the bluff is snow topped, but the sides are steep and rocky. The bluff extends from the east side of Bills Gulch, 4 nautical miles (7.4 km; 4.6 mi) northeast of Mount Shelby. First photographed from aircraft by personnel of United States Antarctic Service (USAS) on a flight of September 28, 1940. Named by United Kingdom Antarctic Place-Names Committee (UK-APC) after the Rev. William Williamson (1804–75), British mathematician and lawyer who made one of the earliest measurements of the surface flow of a glacier, in Switzerland, 1844.
 This article incorporates public domain material from "Williamson Bluff". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.  
This Bowman Coast location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Starkovia hallidayi is a species of mite in the family Laelaptonyssidae, found in Australia.
[1][2] It was first described in 2000 by Gerald W. Krantz as Laelaptonyssus hallidayi.[3][4]

This Mesostigmata article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Dan Anthony (formerly Dan Jaramillo) is an American recording artist, songwriter and musician. He played with the surf-rock guitarist Dick Dale, and was the founder of the late 1960s California surf band Royale Monarchs. He also played in the house band for Bob Eubanks' Cinnamon Cinder night clubs. Regularly appearing on his Cinnamon Cinder and Hollywood Dance Time television shows. Later under contract at MCA/Universal, Decca Records where Gary Usher produced Dan's new group  The Forte' Four. He was an original member of the Marin County based folk-rock group AnExchange in the early 1970s.
Collector-oriented compilation LPs and CDs containing tracks:
Carex obscuriceps is a tussock-forming perennial in the family Cyperaceae. It is native to parts of Asia.[1]
This Cyperaceae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Angus Kennedy, 6th Marquess of Ailsa (28 October 1882 – 31 May 1957) was a Scottish peer.
He was the son of Archibald Kennedy, 3rd Marquess of Ailsa. He was known as Lord Angus Kennedy until 1956.[1]
He was educated at Eton College.[1]
He gained the rank of lieutenant in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve and the rank of captain in the Royal Air Force.[1]
Kennedy succeeded to the titles of 17th Earl of Cassilis, 19th Lord Kennedy, 6th Marquess of Ailsa & 6th Baron Ailsa on 1 June 1956.[1]
He married Gertrude Millicent Cooper (daughter of Gervas Weir Cooper, of Wordwell Hall, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk) on 28 January 1922 and they had one child:
Lord Ailsa died on 31 May 1957 and was succeeded in his titles by his only son, Archibald.[1]

This biography of a marquess in the peerage of the United Kingdom is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Carlos Alejandro Castro Manriquez (born March 6, 1994[1]) is an American professional boxer who has held the WBC Continental Americas featherweight title since August 2021.
Born in Ciudad Obregón, Castro was brought to the United States as a young child and settled in Phoenix, Arizona.[3] His father introduced him to boxing around the age of seven.[3]
Castro made his professional debut on June 16, 2016, scoring a four-round unanimous decision (UD) victory against Tony Green at the Celebrity Theatre in Phoenix, Arizona.[4]
After compiling a record of 19–0 (8 KOs), he returned to the Celebrity Theatre to face Alexis Santiago for the vacant WBC–USNBC super bantamweight title on February 24, 2018. After Castro landed a series of combinations in the tenth and final round, Santiago's corner threw in the towel at 1 minute 50 seconds into the round, handing Castro a technical knockout (TKO) victory and his first professional championship.[5][6]
In June of that year, it was announced that Castro had signed a multi-year contract with Bob Arum's Top Rank promotional company.[7] Following a UD victory against Diuhl Olguin in a non-title fight in August,[8] Castro defeated Genesis Servania via UD on February 10, 2019, capturing the vacant WBC Continental Americas super bantamweight title at the Save Mart Arena in Fresno, California. The judges' scorecards read 100–90, 99–91 and 98–92.[9][10]
After three more victories, two of which were title defenses, Castro moved up to the featherweight division. His first bout at the weight was a fourth-round stoppage victory against Cesar Juarez in July 2020.[11] Castro's next fight came against former two-weight interim world champion Óscar Escandón on August 21, 2021 at the T-Mobile Arena in Paradise, Nevada. In a bout that served as part of the undercard for Manny Pacquiao vs. Yordenis Ugás, Castro scored knockdowns in rounds seven and ten, the latter of which promoted the referee to call a halt to the contest at 1 minute 8 seconds into the round, awarding Castro the vacant WBC Continental Americas featherweight title victory via tenth-round knockout (KO).[12][13]
Yeinny Norela Geles Moreno (born 6 December 1997)[1] is a Colombian weightlifter. She won the silver medal in the women's 87 kg event at the 2023 World Weightlifting Championships held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.[2][3] She is a two-time medalist at the Pan American Weightlifting Championships.[1][4] She won two medals at the 2022 Bolivarian Games held in Valledupar, Colombia.[5]
Geles competed in the girls' +63 kg event at the 2014 Summer Youth Olympics held in Nanjing, China.[6]
She won the bronze medal in her event at the 2022 South American Games held in Asunción, Paraguay.[7][8]
Middle Mesa is a census-designated place (CDP) in San Juan County, New Mexico, United States. It was first listed as a CDP following the 2010 census,[3] replacing the Young Place CDP. At the 2010 census, Young Place had a population of 187.[4]
The CDP is in the extreme northeast corner of the county, bordered to the north by La Plata and Archuleta counties in Colorado. It is to the west of Navajo Reservoir on the San Juan River. It is 30 miles (48 km) by as the crow flies and 50 miles (80 km) by road northeast of Aztec, the San Juan county seat, and 7 miles (11 km) southwest of Arboles, Colorado.

This New Mexico state location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Wilber Marion Brucker (June 23, 1894 – October 28, 1968)
[1] was an American Republican politician. Born in Saginaw, Michigan, he served as the 32nd governor of Michigan from 1931 to 1933 and as the United States Secretary of the Army between July 21, 1955, and January 19, 1961.[1]
Brucker was born in Saginaw, Michigan, the son of Democratic U.S. Representative Ferdinand Brucker.  He graduated from the University of Michigan Law School in 1916 and enlisted in the Michigan National Guard, serving with its 33rd Infantry Regiment on the Mexican border during the Pancho Villa Expedition from 1916 to 1917.[2]  He attended Officer Training Camp at Fort Sheridan, Illinois, and was commissioned a second lieutenant. Brucker served in France during World War I with the 166th Infantry, 42d Division, in the Château Thierry, St. Mihiel, and Meuse-Argonne operations, 1917–1918.  He received the Silver Star and Purple Heart, and remained a member of the Officer Reserve Corps until 1937.[3]
A Republican, after the war, Brucker was assistant prosecuting attorney of Saginaw County from 1919 to 1923, and then prosecuting attorney from 1923 to 1927. He married Clara Helen Hantel in 1923.  He served as assistant attorney general of Michigan, 1927–1928, and as Michigan Attorney General, 1928–1930.[4]
In 1930 he was elected as Michigan's 32nd Governor, serving one term until being defeated in 1932 by Democrat William Comstock.[5][6] During his two years in office, the police force in Michigan increased and a new state police headquarters in Lansing was authorized. Also Michigan enacted legislation that allowed grand juries to investigate allegations of municipal government fraud and mismanagement. In 1936, Brucker defeated incumbent U.S. Senator James Couzens in the Republican primary elections, but lost to Democrat Prentiss M. Brown in the general election.[7][8]
He was a member of the law firm of Clark, Klein, Brucker, and Waples, 1937–1954, and served as General Counsel of the Department of Defense from 1954 to 1955, during the Army–McCarthy hearings.[9]
In 1955, Brucker was appointed by U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower as Secretary of the Army, serving from July 21, 1955, to January 19, 1961.[10] Brucker administered the Army during a period of major technological advance, especially in the missile-satellite field, and at a time when the Army's place in the national defense structure was overshadowed by a philosophy of "massive retaliation". Under his direction the Army instituted a five-element (pentagonal) organization concept for the division, established a Strategic Army Corps for emergency reaction, launched the United States' first satellite, Explorer I, and adopted the Army Flag.
Brucker returned to legal practice in Detroit with the firm of Brucker and Brucker, 1961–1968, and was a member of the Board of Directors of Freedoms Foundation.  He died in Detroit on October 28, 1968, and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery.[11]
Brucker Hall at Joint Base Myer–Henderson Hall is named for him.[12]
Prince Eustachy Erazm Sanguszko (1768–1844) was a Polish nobleman, general, military commander, diplomat and politician.
Eustachy Erazm Sanguszko was born in 1768 to Hieronim Janusz Sanguszko and Cecylia Usrzula Potocka.
In the years 1780–1786, Sanguszko graduated from the military school of Strasbourg and served in the Régiment Royal-Allemand (together with Stanisław Mokronowski) of the French Royal army.
On 3 February 1789, Sanguszko began service in the Crown Army as a captain in the 8th National Cavalry Brigade [pl]. On 5 October 1789, he was promoted to major, and on 28 April 1792, to vice-brigadier.[1] He was a representative of the Lublin Voivodeship in the Great Sejm of 1788–1792.[2] Sanguszko partook in the War of the Second Partition where he fought at the Battle of Zieleńce as a cavalry brigadier, receiving the Virtuti Militari in its wake on 23 June. On 29 July 1792, the 24-year-old Sanguszko was promoted to brigadier,[1] having taken over the command of the whole brigade on 25 June. As the Targowica Confederation had won, he joined the Imperial Russian Army to save his goods and possessions from confiscation.
During the Kościuszko Uprising in 1794 he was a major general and a divisional commander. At the Battle of Szczekociny he saved Kościuszko's life. Then during the siege of Warsaw he was wounded.
He was a member of the general staff of Napoleon Bonaparte during the Russian campaign (with the rank of brigadier general) and took part in the march on Moscow. In the Duchy of Warsaw he was the vice-Regimentarz of the pospolite ruszenie (general call-up).
To protect family land holdings in Ukraine, Sanguszko refused to participate in Prince Poniatowski's 1813 campaign, for which the commander-in-chief, an old friend, punished him harshly with a dishonourable discharge from the army.
After the fall of Napoleon, Sanguszko settled on his ancestral lands that included the battlefield of Zieleńce. There he often pondered on past historic events in which he took part and described his thoughts in his "Memoirs".[3] Between 1817–1820 he was the governor marshal of Volhynia.
On 26 June 1798, in Slavuta, he married Klementyna Czartoryska with whom he had three children: Dorota (1799-1831), Roman (1800-81), and Władysław (1803–70). Earlier on he had been romantically involved with Julia Lubomirska.[4]
He was decorated with the Knight's Cross of the Polish Virtuti Militari and Chevalier of the French Legion of Honour.
Pennsylvania Route 841Pennsylvania Route 841 (PA 841) is a state highway in Chester County, Pennsylvania. The route runs from the Maryland border in the community of Lewisville in Elk Township, where the road continues as Maryland Route 213 (MD 213), north to PA 82 in the community of Doe Run in West Marlborough Township. The route heads through rural areas of southwestern Chester County on a two-lane undivided road. PA 841 passes through West Grove, where it has an interchange with U.S. Route 1 (US 1). PA 841 was first assigned to an unpaved road running from Springdell to PA 82 in 1928. The route was extended south to its current terminus in 1937 and was completely paved by 1940.
PA 841 begins at the Maryland border in the community of Lewisville in Elk Township, Chester County, where the road continues south into that state as MD 213. From the state line, the route heads north on two-lane undivided Chesterville Road, intersecting the southern terminus of PA 472 a short distance past the state line. The road continues north through a mix of farms and woods with some homes, crossing the Big Elk Creek into New London Township. The route turns to the east and enters Franklin Township, where it curves to the northeast. PA 841 comes to an intersection with PA 896 and continues through rural areas with some residences, crossing the West Branch White Clay Creek. In the community of Chesterville, the route turns northwest onto Wickerton Road. PA 841 curves to the north and crosses the Middle Branch White Clay Creek before it heads into London Grove Township as it continues through rural land with increasing residential subdivisions. The road enters the borough of West Grove and becomes Prospect Avenue, where it is lined with homes. In the center of town, the route passes a few businesses and crosses an East Penn Railroad line at-grade. PA 841 turns east onto Evergreen Street and curves northeast past residences and commercial establishments. The route splits from Evergreen Street by heading north onto Chatham Road.[2][3]
PA 841 leaves West Grove for London Grove Township again and comes to a partial cloverleaf interchange with the US 1 freeway. The road continues into a mix of farmland and woodland with occasional homes, crossing a stream on a one-lane bridge. In the community of Chatham, the route turns east onto London Grove Road and comes to a junction with PA 41. Past PA 41, PA 841 turns north onto Coatesville Road and continues north through agricultural areas with a few homes, reaching an intersection with PA 926. Upon crossing PA 926, the road heads into West Marlborough Township on North Chatham Road and makes a turn to the northwest through farmland and woods. The route intersects the western terminus of PA 842 and makes a curve to the north before bending to the northeast. PA 841 continues north to the community of Springdell, where it makes a sharp turn to the east. The route curves northeast through farmland and continues to its northern terminus at PA 82 in the community of Doe Run.[2][3]
When Pennsylvania first legislated routes in 1911, present-day PA 841 was not given a route number.[4] In 1928, PA 841 was designated onto an unpaved road running from Springdell northeast to PA 82.[5][6] In 1937, PA 841 was extended south from Springdell to its current southern terminus at the Maryland border, following its current alignment.[7][8] By 1940, the entire length of the route was paved.[8]  PA 841 has remained along the same alignment since.[3]
The entire route is in Chester County.
PA Route 841 Alternate TruckPennsylvania Route 841 Alternate Truck is a truck route bypassing a weight-restricted bridge over a branch of the West Branch of White Clay Creek in Franklin Township, on which trucks over 35 tons are prohibited. Formed in 2013, it follows PA 896, PA 796, Baltimore Pike, and Evergreen Street.[9][10]
Domini Guardato was a powerful landowner, wealthy merchant, and an intellectual in the Kingdom of Sicily. He was received into the Order of Jerusalem and decorated the Orders of Calatrava and Alcantara. He was a member of the aristocratic Patrician family Guardato, during the late 12th century.
He was from the medieval merchant city of Sorrento during the Kingdom of Sicily, where his family served as Patricians of the region. Since the time of King William the Good, he distinguished himself ever more to military valor, and therefore was often decorated to high and important office and other noble prerogatives. His descendants enjoyed nobility in the Kingdom of Sicily; Sorrento in the Seat of Door, and in Salerno in the Seat of Field; and many members of his family were received into the Knights Hospitaller; Knights of Alcantara, and the Knights of Calatrava. He more important than nobility, his family enjoyed the status of Patrician of Sorrento unto its abolition, in 1804 was ascribed To register Squares closed the Kingdom.
This Italian biographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sulimów-Kolonia [suˈlimuf kɔˈlɔɲa] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Dołhobyczów, within Hrubieszów County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland, close to the border with Ukraine.[1] It lies approximately 8 kilometres (5 mi) south of Dołhobyczów, 36 km (22 mi) south of Hrubieszów, and 132 km (82 mi) south-east of the regional capital Lublin.

This Hrubieszów County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Adolf 'Adi' Vogl (4 May 1910 – 9 April 1993)[1] was an Austrian football forward.[2] He played for 20 caps for Austria, with also scoring six goals.[2] Vogl also played for FC Admira Wacker Mödling, Excelsior AC Roubaix and Wiener AC.[2] He participated at the 1934 Mitropa Cup.[3] Vogl was named after lanes in Floridsdorf.[4]

This biographical article related to association football in Austria, about a forward, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Aria is a village and municipality located in the province and autonomous community of Navarre, northern Spain.
42°57′N 1°16′W﻿ / ﻿42.950°N 1.267°W﻿ / 42.950; -1.267
This article about a location in Navarre, Spain, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Harry J. Beresford (4 November 1863 – 4 October 1944) was an English-born actor on the American stage and in motion pictures. He used the professional name Harry J. Morgan early in his career.
Harry Beresford began his acting career in 1885, as a member of the chorus of Little Jack Sheppard at the Gaiety Theatre, London. After moving to the United States in 1886, he performed throughout the country in repertory theatre and with various touring companies—including his own—for the next 30 years. His first major Broadway theatre success was in 1919, in Boys Will Be Boys, which was soon followed by a starring role in Shavings (1920). In August 1922, he created the role of the alcoholic Clem Hawley in Don Marquis's comedy The Old Soak, a character Beresford made famous and played for two years. He won praise for his character performances in the Broadway productions of Stolen Fruit (1925) and The Perfect Alibi (1928).[1]
Between 1926 and 1938, Beresford appeared as a supporting actor in more than 50 Hollywood films, including Doctor X (1932), The Sign of the Cross (1932), Dinner at Eight (1933), I Cover the Waterfront (1933), David Copperfield (1935) and Follow the Fleet (1936). He made his final film appearance in 1938, and received original story credit for the 1939 horse racing film, Long Shot.[2]
Beresford was born in London 4 November 1863, to Henry George and Sarah Christie.[3] His professional name was Harry J. Morgan at the time of his first marriage, to actress Emma Dunn, on 4 October 1897, in Chicago.[4] They divorced on 10 February 1909, in New York City, and Dunn was awarded sole custody of their young daughter, Dorothy.[5][6] Beresford married actress Edith D. Wylie,[7][8] who had appeared opposite him in the play, The Other House. They were married for the remainder of his life.[1]
Dunn, who likewise worked in Hollywood pictures in her later years, recalled testing for the role of a bullied wife in a 1935 film. When the casting director said she was too small for the part, she asked to be seen beside the actor who would play her husband—and discovered it was Harry Beresford.[9] In 1936, columnist Jimmie Fidler reported that Beresford, then aged 72, had collapsed while working on an RKO Pictures soundstage. Unconscious for two hours, he was cared for by Dunn, who happened to be working on a set nearby.[6]
Beresford died 4 October 1944, at his home in Toluca Lake, Los Angeles, of a heart ailment.[1] He was interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park.[10]
Juice Wrld: Into the Abyss [1] is a 2021 documentary film, directed by Tommy Oliver. Focusing on the life and death of American rapper and singer Juice Wrld, the documentary is the sixth and final part of the HBO Max documentary series Music Box.[2] It premiered at the AFI Fest on November 12th, 2021, where it won the AFI Fest Documentary Audience Award, and it officially debuted on December 16th, 2021, with an exclusive preview at the Juice Wrld Day event held at Chicago's United Center on December 9th.[3]
All star as themselves.
Shot, edited, and produced by Oliver, the documentary contains footage from Juice's last years, and contains appearances from numerous friends and family of his, including his protégé The Kid Laroi, girlfriend Ally Lotti, and manager Lil Bibby. It also features numerous frequent collaborators of Juice's, including rappers Ski Mask the Slump God, Polo G, and G Herbo, producers Benny Blanco, Rex Kudo, and Hit-Boy, and music video director Cole Bennett.[citation needed]
Into the Abyss premiered at the AFI Fest on November 12th, 2021, where it won the AFI Fest Documentary Audience Award, and it officially debuted on December 16th, 2021, with an exclusive preview at the Juice Wrld Day event held at Chicago's United Center on December 9.[3]
The documentary's release was preceded by the release of Juice's fourth studio album and second to be released posthumously, Fighting Demons.[4][5] The first single from the album, "Already Dead", was released to streaming services on November 12, 2021. The album was officially released by Juice's labels, Grade A and Interscope Records on December 10, 2021.[citation needed]
The film received mostly positive reviews from critics.[6] Conversely, film critic Steve Pulaski of Influx Magazine gave the film a negative review, saying, "Into the Abyss is perhaps the grimiest documentary that could be made about the late Chicago legend. Sloppy editing is one thing, but to show intimate footage of the 21-year-old artist’s spiral into addiction in such an uncritical way feels especially cruel."[7]
Anthurium silanchense is a species of plant in the family Araceae. It is endemic to Ecuador.  Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. It is threatened by habitat loss.

This Anthurium-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
This is a list of cities in Portugal. In Portugal, a city (Portuguese: cidade) is an honorific term given to locations that meet several criteria, such as having a minimum number of inhabitants, good infrastructure (schools, medical care, cultural and sports facilities), or have a major historical importance. The country's demographic expansion of the 1980s prompted the elevation of several towns to city status and, as of 2018, 159 locations in Portugal are considered a city.
[1]
In Portugal, the city is not an administrative division, therefore a city generally does not necessarily correspond to a municipality, which is the second-level local government in the country. Some entirely urban municipalities do coincide with cities, such as Lisbon, Porto, Funchal, Amadora, Entroncamento, and São João da Madeira.
The municipality with the most cities is Paredes Municipality, which contains four cities.
Until 1910, a location was proclaimed city by royal charter (carta régia), which happened 25 times to current Portuguese cities (royal charters were also granted to cities of the Portuguese Empire; for example, São Paulo in 1711). During the Portuguese First Republic, the process was transferred to the parliament, which elevated three towns to the category of city. The dictatorial Estado Novo regime proclaimed seven cities on the Portuguese mainland (as well as some more in the colonies), this time by government decree. After the 1974 Carnation Revolution, proclamation of cities returned to parliament and now, Portugal has 156 cities, one of the consequences being that the title no longer holds the prestige it once had.
Eight locations have been always considered cities since Portugal became an independent kingdom (de facto 1128): Braga, Coimbra, Lamego, Porto and Viseu, as well as Évora, Lisbon and Silves, which were annexed at a later date.
Guarda was the first city proclaimed as part of the independent kingdom, in 1199.
In Portugal, a locality can only be called a city if more than 8,000 inhabitants live in the city's urban area. In addition, at least half of the following infrastructure must be present:[2]
In Portugal there are localities with more than 8,000 inhabitants and with the required infrastructure installed, but not having the designation of "city", but rather as "town", for example:
Just as there are "cities" being "towns", there are also "towns" being "cities", because they have the required infrastructure in place, but have no more than 8,000 inhabitants or because since the locality received the designation "city" it has lost over the years the 8,000 inhabitants, for example:
Portugal's two metropolitan areas, Lisbon with over 2.8 million inhabitants and Porto with over 1.7 million inhabitants, are the largest agglomerations in the country. In the two metropolitan areas, in addition to the large cities of Lisbon and Porto, there are other cities that together form the metropolitan area.
The Lisbon Metropolitan Area consists of the large city of Lisbon, but also the cities of Amadora, Queluz, Setúbal, Almada, Agualva-Cacém, etc.
The Porto Metropolitan Area is made up of the large city of Porto, but also the cities of Vila Nova de Gaia, Gondomar, Rio Tinto, Póvoa de Varzim, Matosinhos, etc.
There are also large cities in Portugal that do not belong to any metropolitan area. These cities are mostly capitals of sub-regions that are not considered metropolitan areas because the population is mainly located in the capital of the sub-region.
The city of Braga is the capital of the sub-region of Cávado.
The city of Funchal is the capital of the autonomous region of Madeira.
The city of Coimbra is the capital of the sub-region Região de Coimbra.
The following list shows the number of inhabitants and the population density of each respective city. Only the inhabitants living in the urban area are counted, not the inhabitants living in the entire municipality.
In the case of large cities like Vila Nova de Gaia, Braga, Coimbra and Setubal, the inhabitants of the entire municipality are not listed, because the municipality does not only include the city, but also other towns and villages around the city, which nevertheless belong to the municipality, but form a separate parish and therefore do not belong to the respective city.
In the case of large cities like Lisbon, Porto, Amadora and Funchal, the inhabitants of the entire municipality are listed because the city spreads over the entire municipality and the respective parishes within the municipality are seen as "neighborhoods".
Cities with an italic font are capitals of subregions, cities with a bold font are capitals of regions.[3]
per km2
Christina Anna Goldschmidt is a British probabilist known for her work in probability theory including coalescent theory, random minimum spanning trees, and the theory of random graphs. She is professor of probability in the department of statistics, University of Oxford and a fellow of Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.[1]
Goldschmidt read mathematics at New Hall, Cambridge, and continued at the statistical laboratory of Cambridge for her Ph.D.[2] Her 2004 dissertation, Large Random Hypergraphs, was supervised by James R. Norris.[3]
She did postdoctoral research with Jean Bertoin at Pierre and Marie Curie University, as a Stokes fellow at Pembroke College, Cambridge, and as an EPSRC postdoctoral fellow at Oxford, before becoming an assistant professor in 2009 at the University of Warwick. She returned to Oxford in 2011 and was promoted to full professor in 2017.[2]
Goldschmidt was a Medallion Lecturer of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics in 2016.[4] In 2019 she was chosen to become a fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, "for fundamental contributions to the fields of coalescence and fragmentation theory, and to continuum limits for random trees and graphs".[5]
Michael Boyers (born 16 April 1948) was an English cricketer. He was a right-handed batsman and right-arm medium-fast bowler who played for Essex. He was born in Plaistow.[1]
Boyers, who played for Essex Second XI between 1967 and 1969, made a single first-class appearance for the side, in July 1969, against Middlesex. From the lower-middle order, he scored a duck in the first innings in which he batted, and 2 runs in the second.
The following month, he made a single List A appearance, against a touring Barbados team, against whom he scored 8 runs. He took a single wicket in the match, that of Arthur Bethell.[1]
Mike Boyers has been the Coach of the University of Essex Cricket Club (UECC) and at the time he was one of the leading coaches in the world. Australia Cricket Board offered him the job in 2009 prior to the Ashes but he declined the job to remain with Essex University 1st XI. He left the coaching position at the university in 2010 as a result of his deteriorating health.[2]
Boyers was the headteacher of Warwick Boys school in East London from 1985 to 1996.[citation needed]
The following is a list of notable events and releases of the year 2003 in Norwegian music.
A
B
I
N
The Railway Man is a 2013 war film directed by Jonathan Teplitzky. It is an adaptation of the 1995 autobiography of the same name by Eric Lomax, and stars Colin Firth, Nicole Kidman, Jeremy Irvine, and Stellan Skarsgård.[6][7][8] It premiered at the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival on 6 September 2013.[9]
During the Second World War, Eric Lomax is a British officer who is captured by the Japanese in Singapore and sent to a Japanese POW camp, where he is forced to work on the Thai-Burma Railway north of the Malay Peninsula. During his time in the camp as one of the Far East prisoners of war, Lomax is tortured by the Kempeitai (military secret police) for building a radio receiver from spare parts. The torture depicted includes beatings, food deprivation and waterboarding. Apparently, he had fallen under suspicion of being a spy, for supposedly using the British news broadcast receiver as a transmitter of military intelligence. In fact, however, his only intention had been to use the device as a morale booster for himself and his fellow prisoner-slaves. Lomax and his surviving comrades are finally rescued by the British Army.
Thirty years later, Lomax is still suffering the psychological trauma of his wartime experiences, though strongly supported by his wife, Patricia, whom he had met on one of his many train excursions, a true railway enthusiast. His best friend and fellow ex-POW Finlay brings him evidence that one of their captors, an interpreter for the Japanese secret police Takashi Nagase, is now working as a tourist guide in the very camp where he interpreted for the Kempetai as they tortured British POWs. Before Lomax can act on this information, Finlay, unable to handle his memories of his experiences, commits suicide by hanging himself from a bridge. Lomax travels alone to Thailand and returns to the scene of his torture to confront Nagase “in an attempt to let go of a lifetime of bitterness and hate”. When he finally confronts his former captor, Lomax first questions him in the same way Nagase and his men had interrogated him years before.
The situation builds up to the point where Lomax prepares to smash Nagase's arm, using a club and a clamp designed by the Japanese for that purpose and now used as war exhibits. Out of guilt, Nagase does not resist, but Lomax redirects the blow at the last moment. Lomax threatens to cut Nagase's throat and finally pushes him into a bamboo cage, of the kind in which Lomax and many other POWs had been placed as punishment. Nagase soon reveals that the Japanese (including himself) were brainwashed into thinking the war would be a victorious one for them, and that he never knew about the high casualties caused by the Imperial Japanese Army. Lomax finally frees Nagase, throws his knife into the nearby river and returns to Britain.
After receiving a heartfelt letter from Nagase confessing his feelings of guilt, Lomax returns, with Patricia, to Thailand. He meets Nagase once again, and in an emotional scene the two accept each other's apologies and embrace. The epilogue relates that Nagase and Eric remained friends until Nagase's death in 2011 and Eric's one year later.
While he was working on the screenplay, co-writer Frank Cottrell Boyce travelled to Berwick-upon-Tweed in Northumberland with Firth to meet 91-year-old Lomax.[10] Firth said of the film: "I think what is not often addressed is the effect over time. We do sometimes see stories about what it's like coming home from war, we very rarely see stories about what it's like decades later. This is not just a portrait of suffering. It's about relationships ... how that damage interacts with intimate relationships, with love."[11]
Rachel Weisz was originally to play Patricia, but had to drop out due to scheduling conflicts with re-shoots for other films.[12]
Shooting began in April 2012 in Edinburgh, Perth, Berwick-upon-Tweed. and North Berwick in East Lothian and St Monans in Fife, and later in Thailand and Ipswich, Queensland, Australia.[6][12]
The film grossed $4,415,429 in the US, and $17,882,455 outside internationally, for a combined gross of $22,297,884.[2]
On Rotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, the film has a 67% approval rating based on 128 reviews, with an average rating of 6.4/10. The consensus reads: "Understated to a fault, The Railway Man transcends its occasionally stodgy pacing with a touching, fact-based story and the quiet chemistry of its stars."[13] At Metacritic, the film received a score of 59/100 based on 33 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews".[14]
Kidman, Firth, and Irvine were all praised for their roles. Katherine Monk of the Montreal Gazette said of Kidman: "It's a truly masterful piece of acting that transcends Teplitzky's store-bought framing, but it's Kidman who delivers the biggest surprise: For the first time since her eyebrows turned into solid marble arches, the Australian Oscar winner is truly terrific", and finished with: "Coupled with some dowdy clothes and a keen ear for accents, Kidman is a very believable middle-aged survivor who will not surrender to melodrama or abandonment".[15] Ken Korman, who agreed with that assessment, stated: "Kidman finds herself playing an unabashedly middle-aged character. She rises to the occasion with a deep appreciation of her character's own emotional trauma."[16] Liam Lacey of The Globe and Mail stated, "Firth gives the performance his all as a man trapped in a vortex of grief, shame and hate, but as in Scott Hicks's Shine, which the film occasionally resembles, there's an overtidy relationship between trauma and catharsis".[17]
Philip Towle from the University of Cambridge, who specialises in the treatment of POWs, awarded the film three stars out of five for historical accuracy. Reviewing the film for History Extra, the website of BBC History Magazine, he said that, while he had no problem with the representation of the suffering of POWs or the way in which the Japanese are portrayed, "the impression [the film] gives of the post-war behaviour of former POWs of the Japanese is too generalised..."
Towle also points out that the meeting between Lomax and his tormentor was not unexpected, but rather there had been correspondence leading up to it. He writes that the film may not have made it clear: the railway was basically finished, and by the time of their rescue "...the main dangers to the POWs came from starvation and disease, allied bombing and the looming threat that all would be murdered by the Japanese at the end of the war."[20]
Sir Patrick Dalmahoy Nairne, GCB MC PC (15 August 1921 – 4 June 2013[1]) was a senior British civil servant.[2] His career started in the Admiralty. He eventually became Permanent Secretary of the Department of Health and Social Security and Master of St Catherine's College, Oxford (1981–88).[3][4] 
Nairne was a member of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom, appointed in 1982 when he became a member of Lord Franks' official inquiry into the Falklands War, and a governor of the Ditchley Foundation.[3] He was Chancellor of the University of Essex from 1982 to 1997.[5] He was an Honorary Fellow of University College, Oxford.[6] Nairne was the first Chair of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics from 1991 to 1996.
Nairne's six children include Sandy Nairne, Director of the National Portrait Gallery,[7] and Andrew Nairne, Director of Kettle's Yard, Cambridge.[citation needed]

This article about a person involved in governance in the United Kingdom or its predecessor states is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Amalda obesa is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Ancillariidae.[2]

This Ancillariidae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
WVHM (89.7 FM) is a contemporary Christian–formatted radio station licensed to Benton, Kentucky, United States, and serving the Jackson Purchase area of western Kentucky, including Paducah. The station is owned by Pennyrile Christian Community, Inc. as part of a triopoly with Southern Gospel station WTRT (88.1 FM) and Christian radio station WAAJ (90.5 FM).[1] All three stations share studios on College Street in downtown Hardin, Kentucky, while its transmitter facilities are located off Cedar Knob Road in rural Marshall County, Kentucky southeast of Benton and northeast of Hardin.
The station originally signed on in November 1996 as WAAJ, with a Christian Contemporary format under the branding The J-FM. In 2006 it switched formats to Bluegrass/Folk music. Then in October 2014, it returned to its original Christian Contemporary format.[2]

This article about a radio station in Kentucky is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kona Lanes was a bowling center in Costa Mesa, California, that operated from 1958 to 2003. Known for its futuristic design, it featured 40 wood-floor bowling lanes, a game room, a lounge, and a coffee shop that eventually became a Mexican diner. Built during the advent of Googie architecture, its Polynesian-inspired Tiki styling extended from the large roadside sign to the building's neon lights and exaggerated rooflines.
When Kona Lanes was demolished in 2003, it was one of the last remaining examples of the Googie style in the region; its sister center, Java Lanes in Long Beach, was razed in 2004. Much of Kona's equipment was sold prior to the demolition, but the distinctive sign was saved and sent to Cincinnati, where a portion is on permanent display in the American Sign Museum. Costa Mesa's planning commission approved a proposal to build a department store on the site, but those plans were scrapped following public outcry. In 2010, the still-vacant land was rezoned for senior citizens' apartments and commercial development. Construction on the apartments began ten years after Kona Lanes was demolished.
Kona Lanes opened in 1958, featuring the Tiki-inspired signage and architecture that became popular following World War II,[1] including what the Los Angeles Times called its "flamboyant neon lights and ostentatious rooflines meant to attract motorists like moths".[2] The building on Harbor Boulevard near Adams Avenue was one of three in the Googie style that architects Powers, Daly, & DeRosa designed at around the same time;[3] Kona Lanes and its sister center, Java Lanes,[4] used names that suggested South Pacific island locales.[3] Author Andrew Hurley called them "expensive and attractive buildings that screamed, 'Have fun here'",[5] and Kona retained much of that atmosphere over the years. Its massive neon-lit street sign remained for the life of the building,[6] and Kona was the only bowling establishment in the area to reject automatic scoring equipment throughout its existence.[7]
Kona Lanes hosted the Southern California PBA Open twice in 1964; Billy Hardwick won in April and Jerry Hale in December.[8][9] Longtime general manager Dick Stoeffler,[10] known at the time as the producer and host of TV Bowling Tournament on KTLA,[11][12] finished third during the televised finals in his own building in December, behind Hale and Hardwick.[9] When Stoeffler rolled back-to-back 300 games in one league session at Kona in 1968, he was one of only four men in the United States to have managed the feat.[13]
Champions who bowled at Kona Lanes during its 45-year history include three-time Professional Bowlers Association Tour winner Jack Biondolillo;[9][14] six-time male Bowling Writers Association of America Bowler of the Year and future PBA Hall of Famer Don Carter;[8][15] John Haveles, an Orange County Bowling Hall of Fame inductee who began a stint as Kona's manager in 1974;[16] future Michigan Women's Bowling Association Hall of Famer Cora Fiebig; two-time female BWAA Bowler of the Year Aleta Sill;[17] repeat bowler of the year and WIBC Hall of Famer Donna Adamek;[18] and Barry Asher, the multiple PBA Tour champion and Hall of Fame inductee who later ran the pro shop at Fountain Bowl in nearby Fountain Valley.[19] Kona Lanes and Tustin Lanes hosted nearly 10,000 teams of five players each taking part in the United States Bowling Congress Women's Championships in 1986.[20]
Under Dick Stoeffler's management, Kona Lanes kept busy 24 hours a day, which made him one of the most successful proprietors in the country. Stoeffler met his future wife there;[12] other couples had similar experiences, including at least one wedding.[2][21][22] The center was often so busy that customers had to make reservations to get a lane during open bowling hours.[23] At its peak, Kona Lanes averaged more than 80 lines on each of its 40 lanes.[11]
Bowling as a participation sport flourished in the early 1960s,[24] but its popularity was diluted due to overbuilding; the number of bowling alleys sanctioned by the then-American Bowling Congress peaked at about 11,000 by mid-decade,[25] and Kona was one of more than 30 in southern California alone. A decline in league bowling starting in the 1980s was also blamed for the downturn,[24][26] but an AMF Bowling official argued that the customer base remained steady because an increase in open bowling made up for fewer league bowlers.[27]
Jack Mann bought Kona Lanes in 1980 and re-branded it New Kona Lanes the following year.[24][28] Mann's family owned several bowling centers in the region; he was behind the creation of Fountain Bowl in 1973 and the short-lived Regal Lanes in Orange in 1974.[7] He also owned Tustin Lanes before selling it to his youngest son, Alex.[29] Mann bought Kona Lanes not because he loved bowling, but because it would continue to pay dividends if he was no longer able to work.[30] He later sold it to his son Jack Jr.[24]
The center's lounge, the Outrigger Room, hosted many local artists over the years. Jazz quintet The Redd Foxx Bbq released four songs recorded there, and Roscoe Holland recorded a set of eight live performances for his album Beyond the Reef.[31]
In later years, much of the bowlers' area was taped off for rock concerts and weekend promotions like Club Crush, which proved popular among teenagers and also led to album recordings.[32] A planned event featuring a local punk rock group was shut down by the Costa Mesa Police Department, leading to negative publicity.[33]
Kona Lanes continued to lose business to newer centers,[7] despite efforts to appeal to a more diverse customer base by hosting local music acts, supporting a Polynesian-themed restaurant called Kona Korral,[2] and promoting gimmicks like "nude bowling".[34] Eventually, the property became more valuable than the business.[35] The landowners, C.J. Segerstrom & Sons, gave Jack Mann Jr. a choice: spend $10–20 million to update the center, or give it up. Mann chose the latter rather than spend such a sum on a site without a long-term lease.[2][36]
Plans to build a Kohl's department store on the site occupied by Kona Lanes and the already-closed Edwards Cinema Center and Ice Capades Chalet were approved by the city's planning commissioners, but they were met with resistance by neighbors who did not believe the store was a good fit for the area.[7] In February 2003, Mayor Karen Robinson complained to commissioners that Costa Mesa's policy-makers were discarding recreation as part of the quality of residents' lives, and appealed their decision.[37] The city council later rejected the proposal.[38] Meanwhile, the efforts to save Kona Lanes failed;[7] it closed for good in May 2003 and was demolished soon after.[39]
The 7.5-acre parcel was rezoned in 2010 for senior housing that was expected to provide a new customer base for the restaurants and retailers already in the area and for commercial developments still to come.[40] The lot had sat unused for about ten years before construction on the 215-unit complex began;[41] Azulón at Mesa Verde opened in 2014.[42] Several dozen palm and eucalyptus trees were saved and replanted on the site.[43]
Activity at Kona Lanes increased in its final days, due to the nostalgic value of potential keepsakes. Manager Juanita Johnson said people were asking to buy furniture, office equipment, and more. "Some of that is older than I am."[21] The more substantial items, including the original wood lanes,[44] had been sold off prior to demolition,[2] while dumpster divers hit the parking lot each day, looking for any items of interest.[21]
The loss of Kona Lanes was a repeated topic at political events. One Costa Mesa city council candidate said he made a commitment to public service when the building was torn down with little resistance.[45] Another would-be council member agreed that the demolition should never have happened.[46]
In 2012, Costa Mesa planners began to upgrade The Triangle, a retail space along Harbor Boulevard two miles south of the Kona Lanes site.[47] Those plans featured a 10-lane bowling alley that opened in 2014.[48] One city official said the center answered residents' longtime call for a new, upscale bowling facility.[47]
The huge, neon-lit KONA LANES BOWL sign was featured in publications by the Costa Mesa Historical Society, along with The Book of Tiki and Tiki Road Trip;[49] it also inspired professional paintings,[50] and was one of several Costa Mesa landmarks memorialized in a mural painted on the local Floyd's 99 Barbershop.[51] In 2003, Costa Mesa Planning Commissioner Katrina Foley led an effort to save the sign from the scrap heap.[6]
Thanks in part to a private donation,[6] the marquee was trucked 2,500 miles to Cincinnati, one of the first 20 signs accepted by the American Sign Museum.[52] The KONA LANES cabinet was refurbished and put on permanent display; the larger, badly rusted BOWL section tore and collapsed as it was offloaded in Cincinnati, and was not saved.[53]
Khalid Ismael Ali Baba (born 6 September 1996) is a Bahraini swimmer.
He appeared in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, as part of Bahrain's Olympic team.[2]  He participated in the men's 100m butterfly event where he recorded a time of  1:04.05, which beat his previous personal best of 1:05.09.[1]

This biographical article related to a Bahraini swimmer is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Apple Music is an audio and video streaming service developed by Apple Inc. Users select music to stream to their device on-demand, or they can listen to existing playlists. The service also includes the Internet radio stations Apple Music 1, Apple Music Hits, and Apple Music Country, which are broadcast live to over 200 countries 24 hours a day. The service was announced on June 8, 2015, and launched on June 30, 2015. New subscribers get a one-month free or six months free trial with the purchase of select products before the service requires a monthly subscription.
Originally strictly a music service, Apple Music began expanding into video in 2016. Executive Jimmy Iovine has stated that the intention for the service is to become a "cultural platform", and Apple reportedly wants the service to be a "one-stop shop for pop culture". The company is actively investing heavily in the production and purchasing of video content, both in terms of music videos and concert footage that support music releases, as well as web series and feature films.
The original iOS version of Apple Music received mixed reviews, with criticism directed towards a user interface deemed "not intuitive". However, it was praised for its playlist curation, a vast library of songs to stream, and its integration with other Apple devices and services. In iOS 10, the app received a significant redesign, which received positive reviews for an updated interface with less clutter, improved navigation, and a bigger emphasis on users' libraries. Apple Music gained popularity rapidly after its launch, passing the milestone of 10 million subscribers in only six months. Though Apple does not disclose the amount of paid subscribers, research firm Midia Research estimated it at 78 million as of November 2021[update]. As of October 2022, Apple Music reached the 100 million songs milestone in its streaming catalog in October 2022.[1]
As of May 5, 2023, the most streamed song of all time on Apple Music is "Shape of You" by Ed Sheeran with more than 930 million plays worldwide.[2]
On of November 8, 2023, it was revealed that Taylor Swift is the most streamed female artist in the platform's history as well as the female artist with most songs reaching Global Daily Top 100. It was also revealed that Midnights stands as the biggest album of all time by a female artist in the platform's history by first-day and first-week streams worldwide. 
On November 28, 2023, it was announced that in 2023, Taylor Swift was the most listened-to artist by Apple Music subscribers, simultaneously setting a new all-time record for the most listeners for any artist in a single year.[3]
Apple Music allows users to stream over 100 million songs to their device on demand. The service offers curated playlists by music experts and recommendations tailored to a users music preference.[4] The service provides three live 24-hour radio stations: Apple Music 1 (previously branded as Beats 1), led by DJ Zane Lowe, Apple Music Hits, and Apple Music Country, which is broadcast in over 100 countries.[5]  The Apple Music Radio service is free for all users, even without an Apple Music subscription. Apple Music subscribers can create a profile to share their music with friends and follow other users to view the music they are listening to on a regular basis.[6] Apple Music's use of iCloud, which matches a users' songs to those found on the service, allows users to combine their iTunes music library with their Apple Music library and listen to their music all in one place. Additionally, the service is heavily integrated into Apple's own in-house services such as their personal voice assistant Siri as well as their audio and video streaming protocol AirPlay. As of late 2019, users also have the ability to access the full version of Apple Music through an Apple-designed web player in beta.
Apple Music's interface consists of five tabs: "Library", "Listen Now", "Browse", "Radio", and "Search". The "Library" tab shows the user's music collection, with options to view songs by "Playlists", "Artists", "Albums", "Songs", or "Downloaded Music". Below these options, the tab also shows music recently added to the user's library. The "Listen Now" tab recommends music for the user based on their music tastes. Human expert selections supplement the algorithmic curation, while users are able to "Like" and "Dislike" songs to further improve music suggestions. "Browse" shows new album releases from artists, playlists curated by the Apple Music team, upcoming album releases, as well as different categories including "Genres", "Moods", "Top Charts", and "Music Videos". The "Radio" tab incorporates Apple Music Radio and other radio stations which play genre-specific or artist-related music, depending on the user's preference. The radio feature in Apple Music allows users to skip songs, view previously played songs on the station, as well as view songs playing next. The "Search" tab features a search box where users can search for artists, albums, Apple Music users, or songs by name or by lyrics.[7] Below the search box, a list of recent user searches and overall trending searches on the service are shown.
When a song is playing, a "Now Playing" bar appears above the bottom navigation bar. When viewed, the Now Playing section allows users to add a song to their library, download it to their device, and like or dislike the song to improve suggestions on the "Listen Now" tab. Other functions of the "Now Playing" section include the ability to control what music plays next and put songs on shuffle or repeat. Additionally, users can view live lyrics of the song they are listening to through the now playing card, which displays the song's lyrics live in sync with the time while it plays to the user.[8]
Each artist page includes a profile banner and a "Play" button which automatically creates a radio station based around the artist. Artist pages also include sections for their featured releases, albums, singles, top songs, and background information. Apple Music users can create their own profile on the service, thus allowing them to follow other users and see what music their followers are listening to.[9]
Users also have the ability to view their most played songs, artists, and albums of the entire year through a feature called Apple Music Replay, accessible on the "Listen Now" tab.[10]
The service is compatible with iOS devices running version 8.4 or later,[11] iPadOS devices running version 13.0 or later, Music app on macOS Catalina or later, iTunes version 12.2 or later for Windows PCs,[12] as well as Apple Watch, Apple TV, Apple CarPlay, and Apple HomePod.[11] It is also available for Android devices running version 4.3 or later, ChromeOS devices, Amazon Echo devices, and Sonos speakers. For devices without a native application, Apple Music is available on the web with a web player in beta.[13] On October 27, 2021, Sony announced that Apple Music would become available on the PlayStation 5.[14] On October 12, 2022, Apple Music became available for the Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S.[15]
Before Apple Music, the company's iPod and iTunes were known for having "revolutionized digital music."[16] Former Apple CEO Steve Jobs was known to be opposed to the idea of music subscription services.[17] When Apple bought audio equipment maker Beats Electronics in 2014, Apple gained ownership of Beats' own service Beats Music,[18] and made Beats Music CEO Ian Rogers responsible for the iTunes Radio service.[19] Business Insider later reported that Apple was planning to merge the two services. Apple also hired noted New Zealand born British radio DJ Zane Lowe to serve as a music curator.[20]
After a period of rumors and anticipation, Sony Music CEO Doug Morris confirmed on June 7, 2015, that Apple had plans to announce a music streaming service, saying "It's happening tomorrow,"[21][22] with the launch later in the month.[4] Morris emphasized several times that he prefers paid streaming as opposed to ad-supported, from a financial perspective. Furthermore, Morris said he expects the service to be the "tipping point" to accelerate the growth of streaming, along with arguing that Apple has "$178 billion dollars in the bank. And they have 800 million credit cards in iTunes." as opposed to Spotify, which "never really advertised because it's never been profitable". Morris further argued that "Apple will promote this like crazy and I think that will have a halo effect on the streaming business. A rising tide will lift all boats. It's the beginning of an amazing moment for our industry."[21][22]
Shortly before Apple Music was released, singer-songwriter Taylor Swift wrote an open letter publicly criticizing Apple's decision to not reimburse artists during a user's free trial period and announced that she would be holding back her album 1989 from the service. She said the policy was "unfair" as "Apple Music will not be paying writers, producers, or artists for those months".[23][24] UK independent record label Beggars Group also criticized the trial period, saying it struggled "to see why rights owners and artists should bear this aspect of Apple's customer acquisition costs".[25][26]
The day after Swift's letter, Apple Senior Vice President of Internet Software and Services Eddy Cue announced on Twitter that Apple had changed its policy, and that Apple Music "will pay artists for streaming, even during customers' free trial period".[27][28][29] On Twitter, Swift wrote "After the events of this week, I've decided to put 1989 on Apple Music... And happily so". She concluded saying it was "the first time it's felt right in my gut to stream my album".[30]
In negotiations with record labels for the new service, Apple allegedly attempted to encourage record labels to pull their content from the free, ad-supported tiers of competing services such as Spotify and Amazon Music in order to drive adoption of Apple Music and offered an incentive to Universal Music Group to pull its content from YouTube. The United States Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission launched an investigation into this alleged cartel in May 2015.[31][32]
The announcement happened as the signature "one more thing..." reveal at Apple's conference.[33] Hip hop artist Drake appeared onstage at the announcement event to elaborate on how he used the Connect platform, and Apple subsequently emphasized how "Independent music can share their music on Connect, too", in contrast to the iTunes Store, where small, independent artists were finding it difficult to participate.[33]
Apple Music launched on June 30, 2015, in 100 countries.[34] Earlier, new users used to receive a three-month free trial subscription, which changed to a monthly fee after three months. The trial lasts for a month now.[35] A family plan allows six users to share a subscription at a reduced rate.[4] Apple originally sought to enter the market at a lower price point for the service, but the music industry rejected the plan.[16] The service debuted as an updated Music app on the iOS 8.4 update. Apple TV and Android device support was planned for a "fall" 2015 launch.[33] A previously unreleased song by Pharrell Williams, entitled "Freedom", was used in promotional material and announced as an exclusive release on the launch of the service.[36] The "History of Sound" advert for the launch of the Apple Music service was soundtracked by the tune There Is No Light by Wildbirds & Peacedrums, from their 2009 album The Snake.[37] Upon its launch, Beats Music subscriptions and playlists were migrated to Apple Music, and the service was discontinued.[38]
In May 2016, a student membership was announced, that discounted the regular price of a subscription by 50%. The student plan was initially only available for eligible students in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand,[39] but was expanded to an additional 25 countries in November 2016.[40]
In February 2016, Music Business Worldwide reported that, with Apple Music having launched in Turkey and Taiwan in the previous week, the service was available in 113 countries. The publication further wrote that those countries accounted for 59 regions that competing service Spotify did not.[41] In August 2016, Apple Music was launched in Israel[42] and South Korea.[43]
On April 21, 2020, Apple announced that Apple Music would be expanding to an additional 52 countries around the world bringing the total to 167 worldwide.[44]
In January 2016, Fortune reported that, six months after launching, Apple Music had reached 10 million paying subscribers, having spent six months reaching the same customer base that took competing music streaming service Spotify six years.[45] This customer base increased to 11 million subscribers in February,[46] 13 million in April,[47] 15 million in June,[48] 17 million in September,[49] 20 million in December,[50][51] 27 million in June 2017,[52] 36 million in February 2018,[53] 38 million in March 2018 (just five weeks after the previous milestone[54]), 40 million in April 2018,[55] 50 million as of May 2018,[56] 56 million as of December 2018,[57] and 60 million as of June 2019.[58][59]
Apple Music's biggest competition is Spotify. However, by July 2018, Apple Music had surpassed Spotify in the number of paying users in the United States.[60]
In October 2015, Drake and Apple signed a deal to release the music video for "Hotline Bling" exclusively on Apple Music.[61] In December, Apple released an exclusive Taylor Swift tour documentary, called The 1989 World Tour, on Apple Music.[62] In February 2016, The Hollywood Reporter reported that Dr. Dre would be starring in and executive producing a "dark semi-autobiographical drama" called Vital Signs. The production was described as "Apple's first scripted television series".[63] Recode subsequently reported a few days later that the announcement of Dr. Dre's production was an effort to "extend Apple Music" in promotional ways rather than Apple actively exploring original television content. Citing Apple's deals with Drake and Swift in October and December 2015, respectively, the report referenced a Twitter user describing Apple's efforts as "content marketing".[64]
In July 2016, Apple bought Carpool Karaoke from The Late Late Show with James Corden, with Variety writing that Apple was planning to distribute the series through Apple Music.[65] Apple's adaptation of the series was originally supposed to premiere in April 2017, but was delayed without explanation.[66][67] The series instead premiered on August 8, 2017.[68][69]
In January 2017, The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple was exploring original video content, including its own television series and movies.[70] A few days later, Apple Music executive Jimmy Iovine confirmed the reports about the move towards video,[71] and in February, he announced that Apple Music would launch its first two television-style series in 2017, with the aim to turn Apple Music into a "cultural platform".[72] In March, The Information reported that Apple had recently hired several people to help evolve its video platform, including YouTube product manager Shiva Rajaraman.[73] In April, it was announced that Apple Music would be the exclusive home to Sean Combs's documentary "Can't Stop, Won't Stop: A Bad Boy Story", which premiered June 25.[74][75] On the same day, Bloomberg Businessweek reported that artist Will.i.am would make a reality show for Apple Music, in an effort to turn the service into a "one-stop shop for pop culture".[76] The reality show was later revealed to be called Planet of the Apps, and will focus on the "app economy".[77][78] The series has cast 100 developers,[79] and premiered on June 6, 2017.[80][81]
In June 2017, Apple hired two television executives from Sony, Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg. The two have jointly held the title of "President" at Sony, and have helped develop shows including Breaking Bad and Shark Tank. The hiring was noted by the media as another significant effort by Apple to expand into original video productions.[82][83][84] In early December 2017, Apple hired Michelle Lee, a programming veteran, as a creative executive of Apple's original video team,[85][86] and a few days later, also hired Philip Matthys and Jennifer Wang Grazier from Hulu and Legendary Entertainment, respectively.[87][88]
On October 19, 2020, Apple launched Apple Music TV via Apple Music and the Apple TV app in the United States. Apple Music TV is a free, continuous 24/7 livestream focused on music videos, akin to the early days of MTV. Apple Music TV plans on having premieres of new music videos occur every Friday at 12PM ET, as well as occasional artist and themed takeovers, airings of Apple Music original documentaries and films, live events and shows, and chart countdowns. The service launched with a countdown of the 100 most streamed songs in the US of all time on Apple Music.[89] On May 17, 2022, Apple Music announced Apple Music Live, a new concert series that kicks off with Harry Styles live from New York on May 20.[90]
On October 19, 2021, Apple introduced the discounted Apple Music Voice plan at $4.99/month, which limits subscribers to only accessing the service's music library and playback features through Siri.[91] On November 1, 2023, Apple discontinued the Apple Music Voice plan, however no reason for the discontinuation was given.[92]
On June 24, 2022, Apple Music increased the price of its student plan, available for eligible college students, from $4.99 to $5.99 per month in the U.S. It represented the first price increase for any plan since Apple Music's launch in the country. Similar price increases also occurred to student plans in the U.K. and Canada at the same time.[93] On October 24, 2022, Apple announced it was to increase pricing of standard Apple Music subscriptions (along with Apple TV+ and Apple One) in many regions. The Individual plan increased $1 to $10.99/month, the Family plan increased $2 to $16.99/month, and the Annual plan for individuals increased $10 to $109/year.[94]
In November 2015, Apple launched the Android version of Apple Music, touted by reporters as Apple's first "real" or "user-centric" Android app.[95][96] The app was updated in April 2017 to match the service's iOS 10 design.[97][98] On November 30, 2018, Apple added support for Apple Music on Amazon Echo speakers, after previously only being accessible on Apple's own HomePod speakers.[99]
On September 5, 2019, Apple released the first version of an Apple Music web player in beta. The web player gives users full access to their music libraries along with similar features from the Apple Music app, while it is missing key features that are expected to be added later.[13] A Windows 11 app was released in beta in January 2023, to replace the aging iTunes for Windows.[100]
Apple has added personalized music playlists to the service, with the September 2016 launch of "My New Music Mix",[101] and the June 2017 launch of "My Chill Mix".[102][103]
On December 13, 2018, Apple discontinued Apple Music's "Connect" feature in favor for their redesigned approach to artist profiles and the ability for users to share their music and playlists with friends and followers introduced in iOS 11.[104]
On November 15, 2019, Apple released a new Apple Music feature called Apple Music Replay, which is a year-end playlist showing users their favorite tracks of the entire year, a feature similar to Spotify Wrapped.[10] On November 20, 2019, Apple introduced Apple Music for Business, offering customized playlists for partnered retailers,[105] while also revealing that the platform's catalog now hosted over 60 million songs.[106]
In 2020, Apple Music sealed deals with Universal Music Group, Sony Music and Warner Music Group for further promotion and streaming allowance of songs from artists on their labels.[107][108]
From October 30, 2020, Apple Music was included in the Apple One bundle along with several other Apple services such as News, iCloud, Arcade, and TV Plus.[109]
On May 17, 2021, Apple announced that Apple Music would begin offering lossless audio via the ALAC codec in June 2021, along with music mixed in Dolby Atmos, all at no additional cost to Apple Music subscribers.[110] In July 2021, the Android version of the app also received support for lossless and spatial audio with Dolby Atmos, though the features were not mentioned in the update release notes.[111] By December 28, 2021, Apple Music had upgraded its entire catalogue of 90 million tracks to have lossless audio.[112]
On September 22, 2022, Apple announced that it has signed a multi-year deal with the NFL to have Apple Music become the main sponsor of the Super Bowl halftime show beginning with Super Bowl LVII.[113]
With the release of iOS 16.2 on December 13, 2022, Apple introduced the "Apple Music Sing" karaoke feature, which introduces real-time lyrics and a new slider which allows for the volume of vocals to be adjusted independently from a track's instrumentals on supported songs.[114]
On August 13, 2021, Apple acquired classical music streaming service Primephonic, and announced that it would become the basis for a new Apple Music app dedicated to classical music, planned to launch in 2022.[115] The Apple Music Classical app was released for iOS on March 28, 2023;[116] for Android on May 30, 2023;[117] and for iPad on November 16, 2023.[118] The Apple Music Classical app is currently translated only in English, German, Spanish, French, Italian, Brazilian Portuguese, and Dutch.[119]
The app is available for Apple Music subscribers exclusively and provides a customized user experience based on allowing users to browse works by individual pieces and movements (including individual and "Editor's Choice" selections of recordings), composers, performers (including soloists, orchestras, ensembles, choirs, and conductors), periods, and instruments. The app also features biographical profiles of composers (including specially-commissioned portraits), and curated playlists. Recordings are also being remastered for spatial audio, with at least one new album with spatial audio released per-week.[116][120]
On September 5, 2023, Apple acquired the classical music label BIS Records.[121]
Apple Music received mixed reviews at launch. Among the criticism, reviewers wrote that the user interface was "not intuitive",[158] and an "embarrassing and confusing mess".[159] They also wrote about battery life problems.[160] However, the service was praised for its smart functions. Christina Warren of Mashable noted the emphasis on human curation in Apple Music, pointing out the various human-curated radio stations and the accuracy of the curated playlists recommended to users in the "For Me" section. The author concluded saying "[The] For Me section alone has made me excited about music for the first time in a long time."[161] Sam Machkovech of Ars Technica wrote that Apple's emphasis on unsigned artist participation in the Connect feature could be an effort to restore the company's former reputation as a "tastemaker" in the mid-2000s.[33]
Apple Music's major redesign in iOS 10 received more positive reviews. Caitlin McGarry of Macworld praised Apple for having "cleaned up the clutter, reconsidered the navigation tools, put your library front and center, and added algorithmically created playlists to rival Spotify's." She noted bigger fonts, large amounts of white space, and she welcomed changes to various functionalities, concluding with the statement that "Apple Music's redesign is a huge improvement over its previous incarnation, and a clear sign that Apple is listening to its customers".[162] However, another Macworld editor, Oscar Raymundo, criticized the new design, writing that "Apple Music in iOS 10 is not as elegant or intuitive as Apple promised. The music service added more needless options, key actions like repeat got buried, and the For You section leaves a lot to be desired".[163] Jordan Novet of VentureBeat wrote positively about the changes, stating "Apple has improved the overall design, as well as the experience".[164]
In December 2017, singer-songwriter Neil Young released a new archive as part of his Neil Young Archives project and criticized Apple for the audio quality offered by its Apple Music streaming service, stating: "Apple Music controls the audio quality that is served to the masses and chooses to not make high quality available, reducing audio quality to between 5 percent and 20 percent of the master I made in the studio in all cases. So, the people hear 5 percent to 20 percent of what I created. ... Apple not offering a top-quality tier has led labels to stop making quality products available to the masses".[165] Young's claim, however, did not stand up to technical scrutiny, with Apple delivering an industry-standard high-quality bitrate of 256kbit/s AAC, slightly edging out Spotify in quality, which uses a 320kbit/s Ogg Vorbis bitrate.[166]
The implementation of iCloud Music Library caused significant issues for users. There were reports about music libraries being impacted by issues such as tracks moved to other albums, album art not matching the music, duplicate artists[167] and songs, missing tracks, and synchronization problems.[168][169] Mashable wrote that "Apple has not yet publicly acknowledged the problem or responded to our request for comment".[168]
iCloud Music Library has also been reported to delete music from users' local storage,[170] though this has been disputed by other publications as caused by user error or another application.[171] Additionally, the feature was reported to have replaced uploaded content with a version locked with digital rights management.[170] In July 2016, Apple switched the matching technology to incorporate features identical to iTunes Match, specifically the use of "audio fingerprints" to scan sound data. The new technology also removed DRM from downloaded matched songs.[172][173]
In August 2016, Frank Ocean released Blonde exclusively on Apple Music. The decision was made by Ocean independently, without Def Jam Recordings, his former label, being a part of the deal. The exclusive deal reportedly "ignited a music streaming war".[174] The move followed in the footsteps of other artists, including Adele, Coldplay, Future, Drake, Beyoncé, Rihanna, and Kanye West, who released albums on exclusive terms with music streaming competitors of leading service Spotify. Jonathan Prince, Spotify's head of communications, told The Verge that "We're not really in the business of paying for exclusives, because we think they're bad for artists and they're bad for fans. Artists want as many fans as possible to hear their music, and fans want to be able to hear whatever they're excited about or interested in — exclusives get in the way of that for both sides. Of course, we understand that short promotional exclusives are common and we don't have an absolute policy against them, but we definitely think the best practice for everybody is wide release".[175] After a 2 week period, Blonde was released on Spotify.[176]
Ocean's independent move to Apple Music exclusivity caused "a major fight in the music industry",[177] and Universal Music Group reportedly banned the practice of exclusive releases for its signed artists.[178] Soon after, several major record labels followed Universal, marking a significant change in the industry.[179] According to unnamed label executives, Spotify had also introduced a new policy that said that the service would not give the same level of promotion once an album arrives on Spotify after other services, including not being prominently featured in playlists.[180] Rolling Stone wrote in October 2016 that "if you wanted to keep up with new albums by Beyoncé, Drake, Frank Ocean, and Kanye West, among many others, you would have had to subscribe to not one but two streaming services", adding, "But over the past few months, a backlash has developed against this new reality".[181] Lady Gaga told Apple Music's Beats 1 radio, "I told my label that if they signed those contracts with Apple Music and Tidal, I'd leak all my own new music".[181]
In May 2017, Apple Music executive Jimmy Iovine told Music Business Worldwide, "We tried it. We'll still do some stuff with the occasional artist. The labels don't seem to like it and ultimately it's their content."[182][183]
Costas Georgiou (Greek: Κώστας Γεωργίου; 21 December 1951 – 10 July 1976), also known by his alias Colonel Callan, was a Cypriot-born British mercenary executed in Angola following the Luanda Trial for activities during the civil war phase of the Angolan War of Independence.
Georgiou was born in Cyprus in 1951, when the island was a British Crown colony. His family moved to London in 1963.
Georgiou joined the British Army and served, at first with distinction, in 1st Battalion, Parachute Regiment in Northern Ireland. He was credited as being one of the best marksmen in the unit. Georgiou has been implicated as one of the participants in the Bloody Sunday massacre. During a hearing in 2000, a witness said he'd fired 26 shots into the crowd.[1][2]
In early 1972, Georgiou and three other paratroopers, Privates Cyril Verbeck, Stephen Peter Kirby, and Michael Wainhouse, carried out an armed robbery on a Post Office. All four men were court-martialled. Georgiou and Wainhouse were both found guilty and each eventually sentenced to five years in prison.[3][citation needed]
Despite later claiming to have been a colonel, Georgiou's highest British Army rank was that of corporal, and he never received officer training. Others state Georgiou was a private soldier.[citation needed]
In 1975, Portugal recognised the independence of its former colony of Angola, and acknowledged the Soviet-aligned People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) as the de jure government. The new government sought and received help in the form of Cuban military advisors, combat troops and material to fight against rival factions, which included the US-backed National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) and the South African-backed National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), which received some US funding but no actual military aid. At the same time, British and American ex-military were recruited by the FNLA through private military companies (PMC; also known as PMIs, for Private Military Industry) in the United Kingdom and United States. Funding was provided by various NATO-member intelligence organisations, including the American CIA and the French SDECE.
By this time, Georgiou was out of the army and working part-time in construction. He had few prospects for more stable and gainful employment, given his dishonourable discharge for his part in robbing a post office. He was dating a Greek Cypriot woman, Rona Angelo. Her cousin was 'Shotgun' Charlie Christodoulou, like Costas an ex-paratrooper of Greek Cypriot extraction, but honourably discharged. An acquaintance, Nick Hall, another dishonourably discharged airborne veteran, took the initiative of putting out an advertisement soliciting mercenary employment for four able-bodied young men. These would be Hall himself, Georgiou, Christodoulou and Costas's old comrade Mick Wainhouse.
The men received a prompt reply from "Dr." Donald Belford, a former British Army medic who had volunteered for a humanitarian aid group in Africa some years before. While there, he had treated several Angolan fighters wounded in the struggle against the Portuguese, earning their friendship and trust. One of his friends was Holden Roberto, leader of the FNLA. After independence, Belford became Roberto's official emissary in the United Kingdom.
Georgiou was now using the nom de guerre "Colonel Tony Cullen"[4] – the surname of a former army friend and not, as mistakenly alleged by some journalists,[citation needed] inspired by the TV espionage series Callan. He went to Angola to work as an unpaid medical orderly, in advance of his three colleagues. It was while he was working in this position that he took part in the decisive action that brought him to the notice of the FNLA leadership. When FNLA soldiers fled the advance of a MPLA force, which threatened to capture the hospital to which he was assigned, Georgiou, and longtime Irish colleague Lyndon Sheehan, led a handful of Portuguese FNLA soldiers in an offensive defence, stopping the MPLA force in its tracks. The general trend of the war for the FNLA at that time was one of a steady string of defeats, ensuring that the defeat of the MPLA column attracted immediate attention from Holden Roberto who, to Georgiou's surprise, appointed him head of the FNLA army, with the rank of Colonel (still unpaid). His three friends including Charlie Christodoulou arrived from Britain shortly afterwards. Within 48 hours of his arrival in Angola, Georgiou had already led his men in disarming and massacring a group of FNLA fighters (his supposed allies), whom he killed just for the "fun" of it all.[5]
Thanks to continuing recruitment in England, a somewhat larger mercenary contingent was formed, but a full battalion was never realised. The enlarged force was still rather small relative to MPLA/Cuban forces, and many of the men were civilians with no military experience, and often refusing to submit to military discipline. This, combined with the foreign origin of most of the core leadership, (Georgiou, Christodoulou and the Portuguese), created a deep gulf between the officers and the British other ranks – to say nothing of the native Angolans recruited as infantry and support troops. Most of these had no military experience and many knew no English, or even Portuguese (then still the language of government and the native elite.)
The first contingent of mercenaries was mostly made up of professional soldiers, selected by a British private military company (PMC), Security Advisory Services (SAS), run by John Banks, Chris Dempster, and Dave Tomkins. Georgiou resented SAS's own leadership structure within the group, and perceived John Banks, who remained based in Britain, as a personal threat to his own position when Banks did visit Angola. Georgiou became increasingly paranoid and belligerent toward his own men, murdering African soldiers and creating a climate of fear even among the British mercenaries, none of which aided the morale of the FNLA forces or their ability to wage war successfully against the MPLA. The British journalist Patrick Brogan called Georgiou a "psychopathic killer" who executed 14 of his fellow mercenaries for cowardice, and was extremely brutal to black people.[6] By all accounts, Georgiou killed for pleasure, and at his trial, it was established that he had killed at least 170 Angolans.[5] Georgiou was much hated and feared by the men under his command, and by the FLNA who regarded him as a loose cannon who was just as likely to attack them as he was the MPLA.[5]
The second contingent of mercenaries sent from Britain, unlike the first, was made up mostly of working-class men with no military experience. Within a week of their arrival, about a dozen of the second contingent had accidentally maimed themselves by trying to use weapons that they did not fully understand.[5] These undisciplined men quickly realised the perilous situation into which they had been placed, and the instability of their leadership. A group of them consequently seized vehicles and attempted to flee the country, firing on other FNLA forces in the process, including Chris Dempster. The deserters were quickly rounded up by Georgiou's men, and fourteen were summarily executed by firing squad.
A third contingent of similarly inept mercenaries was recruited in the US by an American PMC.[citation needed]
The "battalion" fought several more dramatic engagements, including successful ambushes of minor MPLA detachments. However, given his limited resources and the fact that many of his men – European and native alike – were untrained, increasingly demoralised amateurs, Georgiou's campaign was ultimately a failure. According to mercenary David Tomkins, the group spent most of its time foraging for food, usable weapons, and ammunition. Much of this foraging consisted of "raids" on villages, where the men would casually walk into town brandishing their weapons, searching for anything of use. Anyone who offered physical resistance would be shot.
Lack of proper equipment was one of the key factors in the failure of foreign mercenary units in Angola generally, and in Georgiou's case in particular. The MPLA had Soviet tanks, artillery and crack Cuban troops fighting as their allies. The other two factions had mostly light infantry, not always the best trained and disciplined either. Another factor was leadership inexperience: Georgiou had absolutely no training or experience as a commissioned officer, nor did most of his counterparts in other units.[5] Cuban accounts of the Angolan war speak of the mercenaries in a contemptuous tone.[5] The majority of Cuban veterans of Angola describe the mercenaries they fought as inept soldiers whom they had no difficulty defeating.[5]
Georgiou was tried under the jurisdiction of the Angolan MPLA government in the Luanda Trial during June and July 1976. He was charged with illegally entering Angola as a mercenary, along with twelve other defendants. In addition he was charged with involvement in the massacre of fourteen fellow mercenaries at Maquela do Zombo in northern Angola, as well as with the murder and torture of enemy soldiers and civilians in the town of São Salvador.[7] The killings at Maquela occurred after some mercenary recruits had mistakenly opened fire on their colleagues and, fearing retribution by Georgiou and the MPLA, had subsequently fled towards Zaire, taking all the unit’s supplies.[8]
Georgiou was convicted and sentenced to death. President Agostinho Neto rejected pleas for mercy from Queen Elizabeth II on behalf of Georgiou and three other condemned British mercenaries.[9] Georgiou was executed by firing squad on 10 July 1976.[10] His sister, Panayiota 'Blondie' Georgiades, was allowed to visit him during his captivity in Angola. In a BBC interview, she said they spoke mainly about their family and the trial proceedings, conversing in Greek. Georgiou's body was repatriated to England, and he was buried secretly in a cemetery in north London in accordance with the rites of the Greek Orthodox Church.[11]
James Stevenson (August 1, 1827 – October 26, 1910) was an Irish-born merchant and political figure in Ontario, Canada. He represented Peterborough West in the House of Commons of Canada from 1887 to 1896 as a Conservative member.
He was born in County Fermanagh, the son of William Stevenson and Mary Rowe, and went to Port Hope, Upper Canada with his parents in 1840. Stevenson came to Peterborough in 1843, where he found work as a clerk for a stove and tinware business, later becoming manager and finally purchasing the business. In 1858, he married Emma Appleton. In 1873, he sold the business and became involved in the trade in wool, grain and farm produce. Stevenson was a member of the council for Peterborough town and Peterborough County, also serving as mayor of Peterborough for six years.[1] He was chairman of the school board, chairman of the Town Trust and a justice of the peace. Stevenson was also president of the Peterborough Gas Company and a director of the Port Hope Midland Railway.

This article about a historical Conservative Party of Canada Member of the Parliament of Canada is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a mayor in Ontario is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
In operations research, cuckoo search is an optimization algorithm developed by Xin-She Yang and Suash Deb
in 2009.[1][2] It has been shown to be a special case of the well-known (μ + λ)-evolution strategy.[3] It was inspired by the obligate brood parasitism of some cuckoo species by laying their eggs in the nests of host birds of other species. Some host birds can engage direct conflict with the intruding cuckoos. For example, if a host bird discovers the eggs are not their own, it will either throw these alien eggs away or simply abandon its nest and build a new nest elsewhere. Some cuckoo species such as the New World brood-parasitic Tapera have evolved in such a way that female parasitic cuckoos are often very specialized in the mimicry in colors and pattern of the eggs of a few chosen host species.[4] Cuckoo search idealized such breeding behavior, and thus can be applied for various optimization problems.
Cuckoo search (CS) uses the following representations:
Each egg in a nest represents a solution, and a cuckoo egg represents a new solution. The aim is to use the new and potentially better solutions (cuckoos) to replace a not-so-good solution in the nests. In the simplest form, each nest has one egg. The algorithm can be extended to more complicated cases in which each nest has multiple eggs representing a set of solutions.
CS is based on three idealized rules: 
In addition, Yang and Deb discovered that the random-walk style search is better performed by Lévy flights rather than simple random walk.
The pseudo-code can be summarized as:
An important advantage of this algorithm is its simplicity. In fact, comparing with other population- or agent-based metaheuristic algorithms such as particle swarm optimization and harmony search, there is essentially only a single parameter 




p

a




{\displaystyle p_{a}}

 in CS (apart from the population size 



n


{\displaystyle n}

). Therefore, it is very easy to implement.
An important issue is the applications of Lévy flights and random walks in the generic equation for generating new solutions
where 




E

t




{\displaystyle E_{t}}

 is drawn from a standard normal distribution with zero mean and unity standard deviation for random walks, or drawn from Lévy distribution for Lévy flights. Obviously, the random walks can also be linked with the similarity between a cuckoo's egg and the host's egg which can be tricky in implementation. Here the step size 



s


{\displaystyle s}

 determines how far a random walker can go for a fixed number of iterations. The generation of Lévy step size is often tricky, and a comparison of three algorithms (including Mantegna's[5]) was performed by Leccardi[6] who found an implementation of Chambers et al.'s approach[7] to be the most computationally efficient due to the low number of random numbers required.
If s is too large, then the new solution generated will be too far away from the old solution (or even jump outside of the bounds). Then, such a move is unlikely to be accepted. If s is too small, the change is too small to be significant, and consequently such search is not efficient. So a proper step size is important to maintain the search as efficient as possible.
As an example, for simple isotropic random walks, we know that the average distance 



r


{\displaystyle r}

 traveled in the d-dimension space is
where 



D
=

s

2



/

2
τ


{\displaystyle D=s^{2}/2\tau }

 is the effective diffusion coefficient. Here 



s


{\displaystyle s}

 is the step size or distance traveled at each jump, and 



τ


{\displaystyle \tau }

 is the time taken for each jump. The above equation implies that[8]
For a typical length scale L of a dimension of interest,  the local search is typically limited in a region of 



r
=
L

/

10


{\displaystyle r=L/10}

. For 



τ
=
1


{\displaystyle \tau =1}

 and t=100 to 1000, we have 



s
≈
0.01
L


{\displaystyle s\approx 0.01L}

 for d=1, and 



s
≈
0.001
L


{\displaystyle s\approx 0.001L}

 for d=10.  Therefore, we can use s/L=0.001 to 0.01 for most problems. Though the exact derivation may require detailed analysis of the behaviour of Lévy flights.[9]
Algorithm and convergence analysis will be fruitful, because there are many open problems related to metaheuristics[10]
As significant efforts, theoretical analyses are required to improve performances of CS-base algorithms:[11]
Convergence of Cuckoo Search algorithm can be substantially improved by genetically replacing abandoned nests (instead of using the random replacements from the original method).[12] Modifications to the algorithm have also been made by additional interbreeding of best (high quality) nests [13] and this approach has been successfully applied to a range of industrial optimisation problems.[14][15]
The 1955–56 season was the 54th in the history of the Western Football League.
The champions for the fourth time in their history were Trowbridge Town, and the winners of Division Two were the returning Torquay United Reserves.[1]
Division One was reduced from eighteen to seventeen clubs after Ilfracombe Town and Street were relegated to Division Two, and Bath City Reserves left the league. Two clubs joined:
Division Two was increased from eighteen to twenty clubs after Frome Town and Yeovil Town Reserves were promoted to Division One, and four new clubs joined:
Registered Apprenticeship is a program of the United States Department of Labor that connects job seekers looking to learn new skills with employers looking for qualified workers. Employers, employer associations, and joint labor-management organizations, known collectively as "sponsors", provide apprentices with paid on-the-job learning and academic instruction that reflects industry needs. The goal of such instruction is to provide workers with advanced skillsets that meet the specific needs of their employers.
Following the creation of the first Registered Apprenticeship system in Wisconsin in 1911, the United States Congress passed the National Apprenticeship Act (known as the "Fitzgerald Act") in 1937, establishing federal Registered Apprenticeship.  Initially, Registered Apprenticeship programs consisted mainly of the manufacturing, construction and utilities industries. After World War II, Registered Apprenticeship began to expand into training of health and safety workers, including firefighters, police, and emergency medical technicians. Recently, the program guidelines were revised in late 2008 to allow for greater flexibility in serving apprentices and program sponsors in prevailing economic conditions.[1] Currently, Registered Apprenticeship includes 29,000 programs impacting 250,000 employers, involving approximately 450,000 apprentices.[2]
The National Apprenticeship Act authorizes the Federal government, in cooperation with the states, to oversee the nation's apprenticeship system. The U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Apprenticeship works in conjunction with both the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training states that report directly to the Federal government as well independent State Apprenticeship Agencies to administer the program. These agencies are responsible for:
Registered Apprenticeship provides a wide array of benefits to employers, employees, unions, and other stakeholders.  For employers, the program provides  a pipeline of skilled workers enrolled in customized programs that meet a variety of the employer's needs, e.g., increased competitiveness or higher worker retention rates.  For workers, enrolled apprentices receive a paycheck that is guaranteed to increase as their training and skill levels increase. Apprentices also complete a combination of industry-specific classroom education and hands-on career training leading to nationally recognized, portable Certificates of Completion.
Registered Apprenticeship program sponsors identify the minimum qualifications to apply into their apprenticeship program. The eligible starting age can be no less than 16 years of age; however, individuals must usually be 18 to be an apprentice in hazardous occupations. Program sponsors may also identify additional minimum qualifications and credentials to apply, e.g., education, ability to physically perform the essential functions of the occupation, proof of age. Based on the selection method utilized by the sponsor, additional qualification standards, such as fair aptitude tests and interviews, school grades, and previous work experience may be identified.[2]
55°59′31″N 2°41′05″W﻿ / ﻿55.9920°N 2.6847°W﻿ / 55.9920; -2.6847
Markle is a hamlet in East Lothian, Scotland, 23 miles (37 km) East of Edinburgh and close to the village of East Linton.[1] It is the site of the former Markle Castle.[2]
In epidemiology, the next-generation matrix is used to derive the basic reproduction number, for a compartmental model of the spread of infectious diseases. In population dynamics it is used to compute the basic reproduction number for structured population models.[1]  It is also used in multi-type branching models for analogous computations.[2]
The method to compute the basic reproduction ratio using the next-generation matrix is given by Diekmann et al. (1990)[3] and van den Driessche and Watmough (2002).[4] To calculate the basic reproduction number by using a next-generation matrix, the whole population is divided into 



n


{\displaystyle n}

 compartments in which there are 



m
<
n


{\displaystyle m<n}

 infected compartments. Let 




x

i


,
i
=
1
,
2
,
3
,
…
,
m


{\displaystyle x_{i},i=1,2,3,\ldots ,m}

 be the numbers of infected individuals in the 




i

t
h




{\displaystyle i^{th}}

 infected compartment at time t. Now, the epidemic model is[citation needed]
In the above equations, 




F

i


(
x
)


{\displaystyle F_{i}(x)}

 represents the rate of appearance of new infections in compartment 



i


{\displaystyle i}

.  




V

i


+




{\displaystyle V_{i}^{+}}

 represents the rate of transfer of individuals into compartment 



i


{\displaystyle i}

 by all other means, and 




V

i


−


(
x
)


{\displaystyle V_{i}^{-}(x)}

 represents the rate of transfer of individuals out of compartment 



i


{\displaystyle i}

.
The above model can also be written as
where
and
Let 




x

0




{\displaystyle x_{0}}

 be the disease-free equilibrium. The values of the parts of the Jacobian matrix 



F
(
x
)


{\displaystyle F(x)}

 and 



V
(
x
)


{\displaystyle V(x)}

 are:
and
respectively.
Here, 



F


{\displaystyle F}

 and 



V


{\displaystyle V}

 are m × m  matrices, defined as




F
=



∂

F

i




∂

x

j





(

x

0


)


{\displaystyle F={\frac {\partial F_{i}}{\partial x_{j}}}(x_{0})}

 and 



V
=



∂

V

i




∂

x

j





(

x

0


)


{\displaystyle V={\frac {\partial V_{i}}{\partial x_{j}}}(x_{0})}

.
Now, the matrix 



F

V

−
1




{\displaystyle FV^{-1}}

 is known as the next-generation matrix. The basic reproduction number of the model is then given by the eigenvalue of 



F

V

−
1




{\displaystyle FV^{-1}}

 with the largest absolute value (the spectral radius of  



F

V

−
1




{\displaystyle FV^{-1}}

. Next generation matrices can be computationally evaluated from observational data, which is often the most productive approach where there are large numbers of compartments.[5]
This is a list of West Coast Conference champions in college baseball.  The West Coast Conference is composed of nine schools, all of which participate in baseball, with each school playing all of the others in three-game series.  Brigham Young University joined the league in 2012.  From 1999 through 2005, the eight teams were divided into two divisions, with the winner of each meeting in a three-game championship series.  Division were abolished beginning in 2006, but the championship series remained through the 2009 season with the top two teams from the regular season meeting.  The league will begin a four team tournament in 2013, in anticipation of growing to a ten team conference when the University of the Pacific joins the league.[1]  The winner of the tournament will claim the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA Division I Baseball Championship.
The conference began sponsoring baseball under the name West Coast Athletic Conference in 1968 and crowned a champion each year through 1976.  Beginning in 1977, the league joined with the Big West Conference for baseball, with competition in two separate conferences - the Northern California Baseball Association and the Southern California Baseball Association.  This arrangement lasted through the 1984 season, when the league once again began sponsoring baseball for its members.  In 1989, the conference shortened the name to West Coast Conference.[2]
A salt well (or brine well) is used to mine salt from caverns or deposits. Water is used as a solution to dissolve the salt or halite deposits so that they can be extracted by pipe to an evaporation process, which results in either a brine or a dry product for sale or local use.[1]  In the United States during the 19th century, salt wells were a significant source of income for operators and the government. Locating underground salt deposits was usually based on locations of existing salt springs.[2]
In mountainous areas, a similar technique called sink works (from German sinkwerk) is used.
The Chinese have been using brine wells and a form of salt solution mining as part of their civilization for more than 2000 years.[3] The first recorded salt well in China was dug in the Sichuan province around 2,250 years ago. This was the first time that ancient water well technology was applied successfully for the exploitation of salt, and marked the beginning of Sichuan's salt drilling industry.[4] Shaft wells were sunk as early as 220 BC in the Sichuan and Yunnan Provinces.[3] By 1035 AD, Chinese in the Sichuan area were using percussion drilling to recover deep brines, a technique that would not be introduced to the West for another 600 to 800 years. Medieval and modern European travelers to China between 1400 and 1700 AD reported salt and natural gas production from dense networks of brine wells.[3] Archaeological evidence of Song dynasty salt drilling tools used are kept and displayed in the Zigong Salt Industry Museum.[5] Many of the wells were sunk deeper than 450 m and at least one well was more than 1000 meters deep. The medieval Venetian traveler to China, Marco Polo, reported an annual production in a single province of more than 30,000 tonnes of brine during his time there.[3] According to Salt: A World History, a Qing dynasty well, also in Zigong, "continued down to 3,300 feet (1,000 m) making it at the time the deepest drilled well in the world."[6]

This article about mining is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Harpalus lethierryi is a species of ground beetle in the subfamily Harpalinae.[1] It was described by Reiche in 1860.[1]

This Harpalus article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
São Félix de Balsas is a municipality in the state of Maranhão in the Northeast region of Brazil.[2][3][4][5]
7°08′S 44°52′W﻿ / ﻿7.133°S 44.867°W﻿ / -7.133; -44.867
This Maranhão, Brazil location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Koca Katran Lübnan sediri (literally: Big old cedar of Lebanon) is a monumental old cedar of Lebanon (Cedrus libani) in Antalya Province, southern Turkey. It is a registered natural monument of the country.
Koca Katran is located within Çığlıkara Nature Reserve, a cedar forest, in Elmalı district of Antalya Province.[1] The tree is 25 m (82 ft) high and the circumference of its trunk is 8.23 m (27.0 ft) at 2.62 m (8.6 ft) diameter. [2]
The old tree was registered a natural monument in 1995.[2] The age of the cedar was dated as 2000 years old when it was registered.[3][4]
Qutubuddinguda is a village and panchayat in Ranga Reddy district, AP, India. It falls under Moinabad mandal.[1]


This article about a location in Ranga Reddy district, Telangana is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kurgo is outdoor dog gear brand owned by Radio Systems Corporation.
Kurgo gear is carried by PetSmart, Petco, and numerous other physical and online retailers and as such, is considered to be a leading manufacturer of pet travel and safety products in the United States and Canada. Kurgo products are also available in the UK, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand.[1]
In addition to its Knoxville, Tennessee headquarters, the brand maintains a satellite office in Amesbury, Massachusetts. 
Kurgo founders and brothers, Kitter and Gordie Spater, grew up exploring the Vermont woods along with their family dogs.[2] Their entrepreneurial spirit and love of dogs motivated them to create Kurgo—although the brand’s inspiration is credited to Kitter’s dog, Zelda.
Zelda had a dangerous habit of jumping into the front seat during car rides. After one too many close calls, Kitter built the first prototype of what would later become the Backseat Barrier in his garage.[2]
Since then, Kurgo has expanded its product line into carrier backpacks, active harnesses, cold weather jackets, seat covers, and other outdoor accessories.
In 2008, Kurgo partnered with Toyota to advocate for safe pet travel.[3]
in 2011, Kurgo partnered with AAA to coordinate a pet travel safety survey.[4]
Kurgo was acquired by Radio Systems Corporation in October 2018.[5]
In 2020, the Tru-Fit Smart Harness Quick Release was voted the Best Dog Harness by Wirecutter.[6]
In 2021, the G-Train Backpack received The Dodo's Paw of Approval.[7]
Fayek is an Arabic origin word which is used as a surname and a masculine given name. Notable people with the name include:
Barkhola is one of the 126 Assembly constituencies in the North-East Indian state of Assam.
As per orders of the Delimitation Commission, No.14 Barkhola Assembly constituency is composed of the following: Barkhola thana and circle Nos. 20, 21, 22 and 38 in Silchar thana in Silchar sub-division.
Barkhola Assembly constituency is part of No. 2 Silchar Lok Sabha constituency.
Areas under Barkhola: (1) Salchapra CD Block, (2) Barkhola CD Block & (3) Tapang CD Block
Some of the Villages under Barkhola are: Dudhpatil, Buribail, Barjatrapur, Joynagar, Masimpur, Kumarpara, Rajnagar, Srikona, Bhangarpar, Sonapur, Dholcherra, Dolu, Chandranathpur etc.[1]
Source:[3]
Chalcophorotaenia is a genus of beetles in the family Buprestidae, containing the following species:[1]

This Buprestidae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Mayoral elections:
Mayoral elections:
Mayoral elections:
Mayoral elections:
Mayoral elections:
The United States House of Representatives elections in California, 1960 was an election for California's delegation to the United States House of Representatives, which occurred as part of the general election of the House of Representatives on November 8, 1960. Democrats and Republicans each swapped a seat, leaving the balance at 16 Democrats and 14 Republicans.
Final results from the Clerk of the House of Representatives: [1]
District 1 • District 2 • District 3 • District 4 • District 5 • District 6 • District 7 • District 8 • District 9 • District 10 • District 11 • District 12 • District 13 • District 14District 15 • District 16 • District 17 • District 18 • District 19 • District 20 • District 21 • District 22 • District 23 • District 24 • District 25 • District 26 • District 27District 28 • District 29 • District 30
This article lists the results for the Thailand national football team between 1990 and 1999.
WUTF-TV (channel 27) is a television station licensed to Worcester, Massachusetts, United States, broadcasting the Spanish-language UniMás network to the Boston area. It is owned by Entravision Communications, which provides certain services to Marlborough-licensed Univision-owned station WUNI (channel 66) under a joint sales agreement (JSA) with TelevisaUnivision. WUTF-TV's studios are located on 4th Avenue, and its transmitter is located on Cedar Street, both in Needham.
The station first signed on the air on January 1, 1970, as WSMW-TV, an independent station based in Worcester that featured English-language general entertainment programs including old movies (including the entire series of Abbott and Costello movies and the Bowery Boys/Dead-End Kids movies starring Huntz Hall), cartoons, religious shows (including the Jacob Brothers and The PTL Club), a cooking show (Cooking with Bernard), science fiction shows (such as UFO), dramas (including Maverick and Thriller), as well as sitcoms (including The Phil Silvers Show and Petticoat Junction). Though WSMW-TV was within the Boston market, it was far enough from Boston itself that the station was able to air some of the same shows as the Boston stations, in a similar situation to WMUR-TV (channel 9), the ABC affiliate in Manchester, New Hampshire. The station's call letters stood for State Mutual (Insurance Co.) in Worcester, the corporate owner of the station.
WSMW also broadcast sports programs; from its debut through the end of the 1971–72 NBA season, the station was the television home of the Boston Celtics. In 1970 and 1971, WSMW broadcast (same-weekend tape-delayed coverage of) New England Patriots preseason games. WSMW also offered extensive coverage of college basketball throughout the 1970s, mostly games of the College of the Holy Cross and Assumption College, with some Boston College, University of Massachusetts Amherst, and Bentley College games included on the schedule. The broadcast team of play-by-play man Bob Fouracre and analyst Bob Cousy worked these games. During the college football season, the station carried a taped two-hour broadcast of a game from earlier in the day on Saturday nights at 10:30 pm. These games were typically Holy Cross home games, and when Holy Cross was on the road, games from UMass. Fouracre worked these games, and the analyst most of the time was Gino Cappelletti. WSMW also broadcast Bay State Bowling, a weekly candlepin bowling program on Sunday evenings for most of the 1970s, which was hosted by Fouracre.
In 1970, shortly after the cancellation of the long-running Bozo's Circus on WHDH-TV, WSMW-TV debuted their own version of the Bozo the Clown series franchise, Bozo's Big Top. Tom Matzell played Bozo, alongside Gene Sanocki as Bozo's sidekick Professor Tweetyfoofer. Local children were featured on the program daily, with many waiting up to one year or more for their chance to be on the show. This version aired until 1974.
In the fall of 1980, channel 27 began running the subscription television service Preview at night after 7 pm. In February 1983, the station expanded Preview to begin weekday programming at 5 p.m. and 2 p.m. weekends. Then on July 1, 1983, the station dropped all of its entertainment programs and began running Preview 21 hours a day, with the remaining hours from 6 to 9 a.m. devoted to religious and public affairs programming. In the spring of 1985, WSMW cut Preview's broadcast hours down to 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. on weekdays and after 3 p.m. on weekends; it also brought back some general entertainment programs. Hill Broadcasting bought the station in late 1985, and changed the station's call letters to WHLL. At that time, WHLL dropped Preview and reverted to being a general-entertainment independent full-time.
Initially, WHLL's schedule consisted of B-grade movies, drama series, public domain cartoons and a few sitcoms, as well as religious programs. While the station again initially shared some of its programming with Boston stations, by the fall of 1986 the duplication had largely been eliminated, and WHLL began to market itself as a Boston station. When cartoons and sitcoms were gone around 1987, the station began running preempted network programming from NBC, ABC, and CBS (that were declined by WBZ-TV channel 4; WCVB-TV channel 5; and WNEV-TV channel 7, now WHDH), which had previously aired on Boston's WQTV (channel 68, now WBPX-TV) and started airing shows from the BBC and Australia's Nine Network as well as new cartoons. WHLL also began running some first-run syndicated shows by 1988, as well as a good amount of religious programming. During the station's tenure as WHLL, it employed WMJX radio personality David Allan Boucher as its booth announcer.
In 1992, the station added Spanish programming as a part-time affiliate of Telemundo, with the network's programming running from 4 or 5 p.m. until about 1 am. By 1993, when the Jasas Corporation acquired the Hill Broadcasting stations, WHLL ran Spanish-language programs after noon; much of the remaining English-language programming consisted of preempted network shows and religious programs. That year, the station became an Univision affiliate and changed its call letters to WUNI. In 1995, the station began carrying Spanish language programming full-time. The station was purchased by Entravision Communications in 2000.
On February 18, 2011, Rhode Island cable provider Full Channel TV, Inc. (now known as i3 Broadband) dropped WUNI from its systems and replaced the station with Univision's national feed on its digital cable tier; the impetus for the removal was a breakdown in negotiations over claims that Entravision demanded "a 33% increase in retransmission fees" as a cash payment to renew its carriage deal with WUNI.[2]
On December 4, 2017, as part of a multi-market realignment, the programming and call signs of WUNI and sister station WUTF were swapped: WUNI and its Univision programming moved to the Univision-owned facility using digital channel 27 and virtual channel 66, while Entravision's digital channel 29 and virtual channel 27 facility became the new home of UniMás affiliate WUTF.[3]
As WSMW, the station produced a nightly 6 p.m. newscast. This program was anchored by Doug White; Walter Cryan of WPRI-TV in Providence, Rhode Island, liked White's work on the newscast and hired him away from WSMW-TV; White subsequently became a longtime news anchor at another Providence station, WJAR.
On April 1, 2003, WUNI launched a half-hour local newscast, Noticias Univision Nueva Inglaterra (Univision News New England), at 6 pm. Sara Suarez was brought from Univision's Denver owned-and-operated station KCEC to serve as anchor and news director. Angel Salcedo, who hosted WUNI's public affairs program Enfoque Latino for several years, was chosen as Suarez's co-anchor. However, Salcedo left the station shortly afterwards, leaving Suarez as the sole anchor until Carlos Ruben Zapata was hired as Salcedo's replacement. In 2005, Zapata left the station and eventually hired Eduardo Guerrero as co-anchor late that year. Before the newscast debuted, the station signed a news share agreement with New England Cable News, in which the regional cable news channel provided news footage.  In addition, several commercial spots for NECN aired on WUNI and WUTF-TV, targeted at both stations' Hispanic audience.
The agreement with NECN expired in mid-2005, WUNI then signed a content sharing agreement with CBS owned-and-operated station WBZ-TV (channel 4). WBZ is acknowledged with an on-air credit when news footage supplied by the station appears on WUNI's newscasts, as well as at the end of the broadcast, before the copyright tag.
In April 2007, WUNI began producing news updates under the title Despierta Boston (which was anchored by Maria Gonzalez), during Univision's morning news/talk program Despierta América at :25 minutes past the hour from 7 to 9 am. The station used a modified version of the Despierta America logo branding, while using an alteration of the graphics and music package used on the 6 p.m. newscast. While Despierta Boston was relatively successful, economic problems led to Entravision discontinuing the morning updates in early 2009. The station also laid off Eduardo Guerrero (once again resulting in Sara Suarez anchoring solo) and 10-year veteran sports journalist Omar Cabrera.
The station's signal is multiplexed:
WUTF (as WUNI) shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 27, on June 12, 2009, the official date on which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 29,[5] using virtual channel 27.
The Entravision tower is a former television broadcast tower located in Boylston, Massachusetts. It is the tallest broadcast tower in Massachusetts, standing  400 meters (1,312 ft) above ground level, and 613 meters (2,011 ft) above mean sea level.[6] The tower is owned by Entravision Communications and formerly broadcast WUNI (Now WUTF) until its move to Needham.[7]
Campaign against the Semigallians
Campaign against the Lithuanians
The Battle of Muhu was a military engagement fought between a force of Baltic and Germanic crusaders and pagan Oeselians. The battle, fought in Muhu, Estonia, resulted in the crusaders storming and capturing a fortress held by the Oeselians.[1]
In January 1227, when the sea had frozen hard, a large Crusader army was gathered after the call of the Papal legate William of Modena. According to the Chronicle of Livonia, 20,000 troops had set out for Muhu from the estuary of Pärnu River and moved along the ice. Since the ice was said to have been very slippery, they reached the stronghold of Muhu on the ninth day. After seeing such a large force, the people of Muhu offered a truce and allowed themselves to be baptised. Most of the Germans didn't accept it and so they started besieging the stronghold. The first attack was fended off with rocks and spears. The besiegers threw rocks into the stronghold with bricoles, built a turret, and undermined the wall.
On the sixth day the Livonian army managed to break into the stronghold, where a ferocious slaughter took place. The wealth of the settlement, horses and bovines were looted, and the stronghold itself was burned down.[1]
Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar College of Arts, Commerce and Science, is an undergraduate and postgraduate, coeducational college situated in Bramhapuri, Maharashtra. It was established in the year 1972. The college is affiliated with Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University.[1]
The college is  recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC).

This article about a university or college in Maharashtra, India is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Bosara linda is a moth in the family Geometridae. It is found on Fiji.[2]

This Eupitheciini moth related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Poitrel (1914−1932) was an Australian bred Thoroughbred racehorse that won the 1920 Melbourne Cup carrying 10 stone (63.5 kg) to victory.[1]
Poitrel was bred by the Moses brothers at Arrowfield Stud in New South Wales in 1914.  At the 1916 Sydney yearling sales he failed to reach his 300 Guineas reserve price and was therefore retained by the brothers.[2]
Poitrel was often described as plain and wiry. He also had hoof problems, so he was sparingly raced. Nevertheless, he blossomed to become a champion stayer. He was trained astutely throughout his career by H.J. Robinson. In Poitrel's four- and five-year-old seasons, he proved almost unbeatable, winning 16 races in Sydney including two dead-heats. His usual jockey was Ken Bracken. Among the other horses he vanquished were acknowledged champions in their own right, Desert Gold, Gloaming and Eurythmic. For this reason, as a six-year-old, he was allocated the handicap of 10 stone (63.5 kg) for the 1920 Melbourne Cup.[3]
Poitrel started the race wide, trailed the field for most of the race, and then came home in the final stages to win by half a length. Some reporters called it the performance of a century: 'He is entitled to be included among the limited band of great horses that have raced in Australia'.
His victory under this heavy burden was Poitrel's only win in Melbourne, but racegoers at Flemington responded to the achievement.
Poitrel was retired to Arrowfield Stud, where he stood until the stud was sold, in 1924. He then went to L.K.S. Mackinnon's Maribyrnong Stud, Melbourne. The best of his progeny was Begamba who won St Leger Stakes' in three states.
Poitrel died on the 2 May 1932 while performing stud duties at Tarong Station north of Toowoomba, Queensland. He was aged 17.[4]
In 2018 Poitrel was inducted to the Australian Racing Hall of Fame.[5]
Konstantinovo (Russian: Константи́ново) is a rural locality (a village) in Grigoryevskoye Rural Settlement, Gus-Khrustalny District, Vladimir Oblast, Russia. The population was 109 as of 2010.[2]
Konstantinovo is located 40 km southeast of Gus-Khrustalny (the district's administrative centre) by road. Zakolpye is the nearest rural locality.[3]
This Gus-Khrustalny District location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Norman Afzal Simons, known as the Station Strangler, is a South African rapist and suspected serial killer in Cape Town in the late 20th century. He was convicted in 1995 of the rape and murder of 10-year-old Elroy van Rooyen in 1995 and sentenced to 25 years. He became eligible for parole in July 2023 and was released on parole and under 24-hour monitoring in November 2023.
Norman Simons was born in Cape Town, South Africa.[citation needed]
He was assessed as an intelligent individual, who enjoyed playing classical music and spoke seven languages, including English, Afrikaans, Xhosa and French.[1] He was employed as a Grade Five teacher at Alpine Primary School in Beacon Valley, Mitchell's Plain.[2][3]
Simons is believed to have started his sporadic series of murders on 29 October 1986,[4] ending only with his arrest nine years later in April 1994.[5] He collected his moniker after it became apparent that most of his victims were lured away from train stations (Soviet serial killer Andrei Chikatilo had a similar modus operandi).
Simons raped and sodomised his victims before strangling them. Victims were found face down with their hands tied behind their backs, buried in shallow sandy graves. In some cases the victims were found with their underwear around their necks, presumably used as a garrote. Hand-written notes were also found next to some victims.[6]
Simons' alleged victims were all young boys aged between 9 and 13.[6] Many of them were from the Khoekhoe community.[7] Alleged victims included Elino Sprinkle (11), Donovan Swarts (11), Neville Samaai (13), Jeremy Benjamin (10), Owen Hoofmeester (12), Fabian Willmore (8), Marcelino Cupido (10), and five unidentified victims aged between 10 and 14.[8]
Forensic psychologist and criminal profiler Micki Pistorius was brought in to assist in the investigation in 1994, and was able to point to Simons as the killer.[9]
Simons appeared before magistrates in 1995 on one charge of murder and kidnap. His trial lasted three months, leading to a conviction and life sentence. He was sentenced to 35 years (25 for murder and 10 for kidnapping) in prison.[2]
He served 28 years of his sentence in Drakenstein Maximum Correctional Facility, Paarl. Simons appealed against his conviction in 1998, but his conviction was upheld.[citation needed]
Simons converted to Islam in 1993, taking on the name Afzal, but converted back to Christianity in 1994.[10]
In 2005, an inquest was opened into the deaths of the remaining victims. After three years of further analysis, the victims' parents came no closer to an answer. On 9 December 2008, Regional Magistrate Marelize Rolle stated that she believed prima facie evidence showed Simons was probably responsible for the deaths of at least six of the other victims. However, due to the amount of time that had passed, she ruled out further prosecutions in the case.[11]
Simons was granted parole in July 2023, and was released in November 2023, to the dismay of the Parow community. However the Parow Community Police Forum chair, who was part of regular meetings before Simon's release, said that he had behaved well and was adhering to his parole conditions. He is under house arrest, and is being monitored by a caregiver 24/7 and being treated for a medical condition. He also has  regular meetings with the Department of Correctional Services.[8]
The investigation is featured in the 2024 TV series about Micki Pistorius, called Catch Me a Killer.[9]
The Totasan Kakurin-ji (刀田山鶴林寺) is a temple of the Tendai sect in Kakogawa, Hyōgo, Japan. 
It was established by Prince Shōtoku's instruction in 589.
Kakurin-ji's Taishidō was completed in 1112, and Main Hall was finished in 1397. Both are National Treasures of Japan.
34°45′08″N 134°49′59″E﻿ / ﻿34.7523°N 134.833°E﻿ / 34.7523; 134.833

This article about a Japanese religious building or structure is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a Buddhist place of worship is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Abraham Kaiser (July 15, 1852 – April 19, 1912) was a Jewish-American businessman and politician from New Jersey.
Kaiser was born on July 15, 1852, in New York City, New York. He moved to Newark, New Jersey, with his parents in 1853.[1]
Kaiser attended Newark public schools and was one of the first students to enter the recently erected Chestnut Street School. He worked as a successful cigar manufacturer for a number of years. In 1883, he entered the compressed yeast business.
In 1902, he was elected Alderman in the Seventh Ward, the second Republican ever elected from that ward. He served as alderman until 1904. In 1903, he was elected to the New Jersey General Assembly as a Republican, serving as one of the representatives from Essex County. He served in the Assembly in 1904[1] and 1905. While in the Assembly, he was the only member of the Committee on Game and Fisheries that favored a bill that made it unlawful to shoot pigeons from traps. He submitted a minority report in favor of the bill, which was adopted by the Assembly.[2]
Kaiser was treasurer of the Seventh Ward Republican Club and a member of the Freemasons, the Odd Fellows, the Knights of Pythias. the Republican County Committee.[1]
He was a director of the Hebrew Orphan Asylum and a member of the Congregation B'nai Jeshurun.[3]
He was also involved in building and loans circles, serving as president of the Mercantile Building and Loan Association and treasurer of the Sixth Ward Building and Loan Association, the Second Ward Building and Loan Association, and the Pride of Newark Building and Loan Association.
He was married to Fannie Isenberg. Their children were Emannual, Mrs. Leon Schlosser, Mrs. E. W. Markens, and Mrs. Isaac Gluckmann.[4]
Kaiser died at home from apoplexy on April 19, 1912. He was buried in Evergreen Cemetery in Elizabeth.[4]
Lord of the Fries is an Australian and New Zealand casual dining fast food chain, originally based in Melbourne, before expanding into other regions. It serves only vegan dishes including loaded fries, veggie burgers, hot dogs and a number of various sides and breakfast items. Lord of the Fries first started as a vegetarian "mobile chip van" in August 2004 which was driven across the country until late 2005 when the first store location was opened in Melbourne's city centre.[1] Due to the menu consisting entirely of plant-based products, all meals from the chain are Kosher and Halal. The restaurants became 100% vegan in 2018.[2] The founders are vegan as are most of the franchisees.  
In 2018, the company announced a partnership with U.S. producer Beyond Meat, with financial backing from actor Leonardo DiCaprio and the former CEO of McDonald's, making them the first Australian restaurant chain to offer their plant-based burger patties.[3]
After opening the first permanent store in Melbourne, founders Mark and Amanda + Mark’s brother Sam Koronczyk have expanded the chain across Australia, with a restaurant in almost every state; one in New South Wales and Western Australia two in Queensland and South Australia, and fourteen in Victoria. The company also plans to further open seven new stores a year over a six-year period.[4] Lord of the Fries opened their first international store in Auckland, New Zealand in 2016.[5] The company has some minor brands stemming from their LOTF stores. Recently they have launched their side brand “Lord of the…” with plant based take home macaroni and cheese products. 
Lord of the Fries has nineteen Australian[6] and seven New Zealand[7] locations.
The Oua River is a river of Gabon.  It is one of the tributaries of the Ivindo River.


This article related to a river in Gabon is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Half-Wits Holiday is a 1947 short subject directed by Jules White starring American slapstick comedy team the Three Stooges (Moe Howard, Larry Fine and Curly Howard in his final starring role). It is the 97th entry in the series released by Columbia Pictures starring the comedians, who released 190 shorts for the studio between 1934 and 1959.
In the second Stooge adaptation of the 1913 play Pygmalion by George Bernard Shaw, the Stooges find themselves entangled in a wager between two psychologists, Professors Quackenbush and Sedletz, who seek to transform the repairmen into gentlemen through environmental influence. Amidst the tumultuous training process, marked by comedic misadventures and the Stooges' amorous escapades with Professor Quackenbush's daughter Lulu, the stakes escalate toward a decisive test of their refined behavior at an upscale society gathering.
However, the anticipated soirée descends into chaos as the Stooges' innate antics disrupt decorum with inadvertent calamity. Curly's misjudged attempts at etiquette culminate in a pie-flinging debacle, symbolizing both his departure from the stage as a Stooge and a comedic foreshadowing of impending misfortune. Moe's nervous reaction to the looming presence of Mrs. Smythe-Smythe, inadvertently likened to the Sword of Damocles, triggers a slapstick sequence culminating in a pie fight.
Half-Wits Holiday is a reworking of 1935's Hoi Polloi, without the aid of any stock footage. Half-Wits Holiday would itself later be reworked as 1958's Pies and Guys.
The untimely absence of Curly from the pie fight would prove somewhat helpful when pie-fight footage was later needed. The footage was recycled in Pest Man Wins, Scheming Schemers and Pies and Guys, as well as the compilation feature film Stop! Look! and Laugh.
Half-Wits Holiday was filmed May 2–6, 1946;[1] it marked the final appearance of outgoing Stooge Curly Howard as an official member of the team. During the final day of filming (May 6), Curly suffered a debilitating stroke on the set and was rushed to a nearby hospital, effectively ending his career.
Curly was to be featured prominently in the pie-fight scene, but after Moe found him with his head slumped on his shoulder and with tears rolling down his eyes, it was apparent that Curly could not perform. Moe alerted director Jules White of Curly's unfortunate situation, leading White to quickly rework the scene to be divided between Moe and Larry. Reaction shots from the supporting cast were spliced in more frequently to hide Curly's absence.[2]
Supporting actor Emil Sitka, who made his debut with the Stooges in this film as the first footman Sappington, remembered:
After (the stroke) occurred, Curly was just missing all of a sudden. It wasn't announced to the rest of the cast; nobody knew what happened. So, we're approaching the last scene in the picture, a big pie fight. They had a big set and they put a huge canvas all around; it was going to be like a battleground. They're getting all geared up and the script calls for all the Stooges. I see a dry run-through of the scene and there's no Curly. I thought it was just a change in the script. No one — including Moe, Larry and Jules — ever told us how serious his condition was. It was only after the picture had been completed that I found out he took ill.[2]Even before the day when Curly suffered his debilitating stroke, he had been having problems taking direction from White during filming. Many of the lines intended for Curly were either given to Larry or eliminated altogether.
In the scene where the Stooges have their reflexes checked at the beginning of the short, an ailing Curly noticeably looks to director Jules White off camera, supposedly instructing him when to lift his leg or when to stay still, as well as his next line. To help with his struggles, Curly was often placed next to his brother, Moe, to help guide him through scenes.
One scene in particular took much longer to film than it should have been due to Curly's health issues. The Stooges were supposed to behave like proper, dignified gentlemen and communicate eloquently when introduced to the wealthy gentry:
White later said, "I had a devil of a time getting that scene. Curly just couldn't get the hang of it. I should have realized then that he was deteriorating even further."[2]
Okrouhlá Radouň is a municipality and village in Jindřichův Hradec District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 200 inhabitants.
Okrouhlá Radouň lies approximately 11 kilometres (7 mi) north of Jindřichův Hradec, 50 km (31 mi) north-east of České Budějovice, and 104 km (65 mi) south-east of Prague.

This South Bohemian Region location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Jean-Joseph Dassy, a French historical and portrait painter, and lithographer, was born at Marseilles on 27 December 1791, and died in the same city on 27 July 1865.
He studied under Girodet-Trioson, and commenced exhibiting at the Paris Salon in 1819. There are several pictures by him at Versailles, among which are 'The Battle of Saucourt' and 'Charibert.'
Jean-Joseph Dassy was born on 27 December 1791 in Marseille. His father was a mason. His younger brother Louis-Toussaint Dassy was destined for the priesthood while his other two younger brothers, Pierre and Hippolyte, helped their father in his marble workshop. Three of his sisters were nuns.[citation needed]
Initially a student of Goubaud and Aubert at the École des Beaux-Arts in Marseille, he then went to Paris where, in 1817, he became one of the best students of Girodet-Trioson.[1]
This article about a French painter born in the 18th century is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide is a nonfiction book by husband and wife team Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn published by Knopf in September 2009.[1] The book argues that the oppression of women worldwide is "the paramount moral challenge" of the present era, much as the fight against slavery was in the past.[2] The title comes from the 1968 statement by Mao Zedong "妇女能顶半边天", meaning "women hold up half the sky", though the authors cite it only as a "Chinese proverb".
Half the Sky focuses on prostitution, rape, education, maternal mortality, genital mutilation, micro-credit, and solutions in developing countries.
Prostitution is prevalent in developing countries. Kristof and Wudunn visit brothels to better understand this industry. Many girls are abducted at an early age. They might be sold by their families because they cannot afford raising them, or sold to pay off a family debt. At the brothel they will be drugged so that they give into the industry and will work all day long. This often leads to STDs and HIV. Some programs will come into the brothel undercover to provide condoms, but the sexual workers are not allowed to use them unless the customer allows it. Young girls are widely looked for by customers. They will pay extra to sleep with a virgin. Some people believe that sleeping with a virgin will clean them of any STDs they may have and infect the worker. They found that many prostitutes become so entangled in the industry that even when they are able to leave the brothel they tend to come back because they internalize that the brothel is where they belong. Some women are financially indebted to their pimps making their stay longer. During their time they also experience physical and sexual violence.
The authors point out that most rapists are people the survivor knows, sometimes even family members.[3] The survivor's story is usually hidden from the community and when it does arise, the survivor is usually not believed.[4][5] The woman will also bring "shame" to the family and this sometimes leads to her killing in order to preserve the family honor.[6] A rape can also lead to a woman having to marry her rapist.
Due to the lack of prenatal care and few hospitals in some third world countries, many women, and sometimes their babies as well, die. Genital mutilation can also make giving birth very difficult. Women are usually expected to give birth at home which makes them even more propense to mortality.
WuDunn and Kristoff make the claim that if girls were allowed to garner an education they would be able to prosper. At this point in time however, it is preferred for boys to go to school than girls because it is believed that they will actually be able to make something out of themselves. Many families have to choose between which of their kids will gain an education because uniforms and school fees might be hard to keep up with if every child goes to school. Girls might also work early on, preventing them from school. Education for girls is also shamed by communities because they fear what an educated woman can do. Some men might not even want to marry an educated woman due to the fear that they will be deemed as inferior to her.
Along with providing a scope on issues, Kristof and WuDunn provide a series of solutions to help end the disparity between men and women in developing countries. They talk about micro-credit, lending money to women so that they can start businesses which will make them independent. They also talk about modern soap operas that portray women as independents and when seen by patriarchal husbands and affected wives can change household dynamics. Another solution is sponsored by Always, Always provides feminine care products to school girls so that they do not miss school during their menstrual cycle, which often happens because they feel ashamed. The final and probably most empowering solution is an education. Allowing girls to attend school and go beyond elementary school can truly help women advance in developing countries.
Half the Sky has come under criticism for reinforcing stereotypes surrounding women of the Global South. Using Chandra Talpade Mohanty's conceptualisation of discursive colonialism, Sophia Chong (2014) argues that WuDunn and Kristoff are de-emphasising the agency of women in the Global South, and portraying societies in which they exist as absolutely dystopic.[7]
Carolyn See, a book critic from The Washington Post, said in her review: "'Half the Sky' is a call to arms, a call for help, a call for contributions, but also a call for volunteers. It asks us to open our eyes to this enormous humanitarian issue. It does so with exquisitely crafted prose and sensationally interesting material....I really do think this is one of the most important books I have ever reviewed."[8]
In October 2012, the PBS television series Independent Lens presented a documentary based on the book as a two-night special.[9] The film follows the book's authors and celebrity advocates America Ferrera, Diane Lane, Eva Mendes, Meg Ryan, Gabrielle Union, and Olivia Wilde to a couple of developing countries: Afghanistan, Cambodia, Kenya, India, Liberia, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Somalia, and Vietnam. In each country, the film introduces women and girls bravely fighting to rise above very difficult circumstances. Their stories expose the blight caused by sex trafficking, forced prostitution, maternal mortality, and gender-based violence as the authors propose that micro-finance and female education can help.
The six actresses travel to different countries to observe the mistreatment of women, physically and psychologically. The actresses and Kristof visited organizations that gave opportunities to women that are often overlooked and maltreated. They also met the victims of sex trafficking, child labor, sexual violence and genital mutilation. Most of these women/young girls did not obtain an education and some had been abducted from their families.[10] Throughout the documentary it is evident how men in women's lives always have the upper-hand, whether it is shown through support from the community towards them or the corrupt legal system in these countries.
This documentary shows the serious issue of violence against women’s bodies. India has the biggest trafficking problem in the world. Because of the caste system, many women are taught to accept their fate instead of protecting their value of life. Many of the girls are sold to brothels because their parents could not afford supporting them or use them to pay debts. These girls’ living conditions are dreadful. Doors are locked from the outside, and the room is small, dark and dirty. They were treated as objects, raped and sexually abused by men. Diseases were transmitted to their bodies; however, they had no say to their bodies. They get HIV and AIDS because condoms are not provided and they take several clients in a single day. They also face abortion. In the book, “Half the Sky”, Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl Wudunn expanded more on the brothel. Sex business seems legal in the society. “The police wouldn’t listen to her. The brothel owners not only threatened to kill her, they also threatened to kidnap her two young daughters and sell them to a brothel,” states in the book (8).[11] In the film, when Nicholas Kristof and Urmi tried to rescue the victims, they were threatened and yelled by the brothel. The police were there but did not do anything to warn the brothel, instead, they asked Nicholas Kristof and Urmi to leave. Moreover, Nicholas Kristof mentioned that the international Labour Organization estimates that at any one time there are 12.3 million people engaged in forced labor of all kinds, not just sexual servitude.
One of the serious issues that was found in Somaliland is female genital mutilation. The birth attendants, in the documentary, told Kristof that once they know the practice would risk women's health and bodies, so they stop exercising it. However, they find out the truth that one of them actually cut her own daughter. Girls do not have control over their bodies. They are taught that genital mutilation is the practice for females, and when they become mothers, they do the same to their daughters.[12]
In those nations, there are organizations to support and aid those victims. For instance, in India, many children are treated as child labor and girls are obliged to take clients at a young age. Urmi, who works with the New Light Program, encourages them to obtain education and assists them to fight for their opportunities to speak for themselves. In other case, Amie, who works with International Rescue Committee, creates the “Rainbo Center” and helps victims escape from the tragedy of rape. Moreover, John Wood, who works at “Room to Read”, helps and supports education in Vietnam. Many of these victims are fighting for their rights and freedom. With the help and encouragement from people around the world, they are more likely capable of escaping from their treacherous lives to a more hopeful future.[13]
Llapo District is one of eleven districts of the Pallasca Province in Peru.[1]
8°31′59″S 78°04′01″W﻿ / ﻿8.533°S 78.067°W﻿ / -8.533; -78.067

This Ancash Region geography article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Nandigam Suresh is an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, lower house of the Parliament of India from Bapatla, Andhra Pradesh in the 2019 Indian general election as a member of the YSR Congress Party.[1][2]
Mr. Suresh Nandigama was born in Uddandarayunipalem village in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh state to a poor agriculture labour family which gave him exposure to problems being faced by farmers at a very young age. At the age of 15 he gave up on his education and moved to Vijayawada to work as a photographer to support his family financially.[3][4]
Band-e Nadarkesh (Persian: بندندركش) is a village in Gavkan Rural District, in the Central District of Rigan County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 77, in 19 families.[1]


This Rigan County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Marine Corps Detachment at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri hosts the largest United States Marine Corps detachment outside a Marine Corps base. With over 1200 students and support personnel, Ft Leonard Wood hosts Marines training at the Motor Transport Instruction School, Military Police Instruction School, Chemical Biological Radiological and Nuclear Defense School and the Engineer Equipment Instruction School.
37°44′24.36″N 92°07′34.59″W﻿ / ﻿37.7401000°N 92.1262750°W﻿ / 37.7401000; -92.1262750

This United States Marine Corps article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Pulaski County, Missouri state location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Fernando Talaverano Gallegos, also known as Hernando Talaverano (1563, Spain – 1619, Chile); lawyer and Spanish administrator, occupied the position of temporary governor of Chile for ten months after the death of Alonso de Ribera, between March 1617 and January 1618.

This article about a Chilean politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Garland Grange Hall is a historic Grange hall on Oliver Hill Road in Garland, Maine.  Built in 1891, it is one of the finest 19th-century Grange halls in the state, exhibiting a combination of Greek Revival and Italianate features.  It has served as a social center for the community since its construction.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975.[1]
The Garland Grange Hall stands on the west side of Oliver Hill Road, in the rural community's dispersed village center, a short way north of its junction with Maine State Route 94.  It is a 2+1⁄2-story wood-frame building, with a front-facing gable roof, clapboard siding, and granite stone foundation.  The building's corners are finished with Greek Revival paneled pilasters, with paired Italianate brackets at the top, supporting a broad eave.  The front (east-facing) facade is symmetrical, with a central entrance sheltered by a hood with Italianate brackets.  Windows are six-over-six sash, except for the window in the gable, which is fixed and has a round-arch top.  Beneath the overhanging edges of the roof is a band of decorative rosettes.  The interior has retained original wooden finishes.  It is laid out with a dining hall and kitchen on the ground floor, and an auditorium on the second floor.  Original 19th-century tables and chairs remain in use.[2]
The Patrons of Husbandry (more commonly called the Grange) was organized in Maine in 1873.  The Garland Grange chapter was established the following year, and this hall was built by its members in 1891.  It is one of the oldest Grange halls in the state to exhibit any significant degree of architectural sophistication, and exhibits a common thread of Maine's 19th century architecture, retaining older styles after they have passed out of fashion elsewhere.[2]
Chromium(III) bromide is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula CrBr3. It is a dark colored solid that appears green in transmitted light but red with reflected light. It is used as a precursor to catalysts for the oligomerization of ethylene.
The compound is prepared in a tube furnace by the reaction of bromine vapor and chromium powder at 1000 °C. It is purified by extracting with absolute diethyl ether to remove any CrBr2, and is subsequently washed with absolute diethyl ether and absolute ethanol.[1]
Analogous to the behavior of related chromium(III) halides, the tribromide dissolves in water to give CrBr3(H2O)3 only upon the addition of catalytic amounts of a reducing agent, which generates CrBr2.[1] The reducing agent generates chromous bromide on the surface of the solid, which dissolves and re-oxidizes to Cr(III).[citation needed]
Chromium(III) bromide is reduced by hydrogen gas at 350-400 °C to give chromium(II) bromide:[1]
Thomas Marvin Calvin (June 13, 1926 – January 22, 2020) was an American football halfback in the National Football League (NFL). Calvin played college football for the University of Alabama. He was drafted by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the 25th round (298th overall) of the 1951 NFL Draft. He played for the Steelers for four seasons (1952–1955).[2][3]

This biographical article relating to an American football running back born in the 1920s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 1995–96 NBA season was the 28th season for the Seattle SuperSonics in the National Basketball Association.[1] During the off-season, the Sonics acquired shooting guards Hersey Hawkins and David Wingate from the Charlotte Hornets,[2][3][4][5] and re-acquired Frank Brickowski from the Sacramento Kings.[6][7][8] The team returned to what had now become the KeyArena at Seattle Center after spending the previous season in the Tacoma Dome, while the KeyArena was being renovated.[9][10] After two consecutive playoffs appearances losing in the first round, the Sonics got off to a 9–6 start in November, but later on posted a 14-game winning streak between February and March,[11] then won nine straight games between March and April. The team held a 34–12 record at the All-Star break,[12] then won 30 of their final 36 games afterwards to finish the regular season with a franchise best 64–18 record,[13] surpassing the record from the 1993–94 season, and earned their third number one seed in the Western Conference in franchise history. They also posted a 38–3 record at home, which was second best in the league.
Point guard and Defensive Player of the Year Gary Payton, and power forward Shawn Kemp were both selected for the 1996 NBA All-Star Game, with head coach George Karl coaching the Western Conference.[14][15][16][17] Both players were also selected to the All-NBA Second Team. Payton was named to the NBA All-Defensive First Team, averaging 19.3 points, 7.5 assists and 2.9 steals per game, and became the first point guard ever to win the Defensive Player of the Year award,[18][19][20] while Kemp led the team with 19.6 points, 11.4 rebounds and 1.6 blocks per game. Payton also finished in sixth place in Most Valuable Player voting,[21] while Kemp finished in eighth place.[22] In addition, Detlef Schrempf averaged 17.1 points, 5.2 rebounds and 4.4 assists per game, but only played 63 games due to a knee injury,[23][24][25] while Hawkins provided the team with 15.6 points and 1.8 steals per game, sixth man Sam Perkins provided with 11.8 points and 4.5 rebounds per game, and starting center Ervin Johnson contributed 5.5 points, 5.3 rebounds and 1.6 blocks per game. Also off the bench, Vincent Askew averaged 8.4 points per game, and defensive guard Nate McMillan contributed 5.0 points, 3.6 assists and 1.7 steals per game.[26] This Sonics team is regarded as one of the best defensive teams in the late 90s.
Led by Kemp and Payton, the two formed "Sonic Boom", one of the most electrifying tandems in NBA history. In the playoffs, the SuperSonics faced the 8th-seeded Sacramento Kings in the Western Conference First Round. Despite losing Game 2 at home, 90–81,[27][28][29] the Sonics defeated the Kings in four games, advancing to the second round for the first time in three years.[30][31][32][33] In the Western Conference Semi-finals, they swept the 5th-seeded and reigning champions Houston Rockets in four straight games to advance to the Western Conference finals,[34][35][36][37] where they defeated the Utah Jazz in seven games to reach their first NBA Finals since 1979.[38][39][40][41]
In the Finals, they would face off against the Chicago Bulls, who posted the league's best record at 72–10, and were led by Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman. After an 0–3 start in the series,[42][43][44] Seattle managed to win their next two home games,[45][46] but eventually lost the series in Game 6 in Chicago.[47][48][49][50][51] Following the season, Johnson signed as a free agent with the Denver Nuggets,[52][53][54] while Askew was traded to the New Jersey Nets,[55][56] and Brickowski signed with the Boston Celtics.[57] This Sonics team has been featured in the video game series NBA 2K.
For the season, the Sonics featured a new primary logo of a dark green oval with the Space Needle forming the letter "I" in Sonics,[58] plus adding new uniforms, and added dark green and red to their color scheme.[59][60] The logo and uniforms would both remain in use until 2001.
Roster  Last transaction: October 31, 1995
The SuperSonics started their season on November 3 on the road wherein they faced the Utah Jazz in Salt Lake City. They started the game well after leading the Jazz in the 1st Quarter, but the Jazz fought back and never looked back as they defeated the Sonics, 112–94. The Sonics now went back home to play the two Los Angeles teams, the Los Angeles Lakers and the L.A. Clippers. The SuperSonics won both of their home games, as they were now up 2-1 for the season. On November 26, the SuperSonics hosted the Michael Jordan-led Chicago Bulls. The visiting Bulls hold a double-digit lead at halftime but the Sonics fought back and only allowed 28 2nd half PTS for the Bulls as they won the game, 97–92. The month of November for the Sonics ended in a disappointing way because they were defeated by a point by the visiting Indiana Pacers led by Reggie Miller. Overall, the Sonics posted a record of 9–6 in 15 games played during that month.[13]
Player Transactions Citation:[61]
In computer science, Prim's algorithm (also known as Jarník's algorithm) is a greedy algorithm that finds a minimum spanning tree for a weighted undirected graph. This means it finds a subset of the edges that forms a tree that includes every vertex, where the total weight of all the edges in the tree is minimized. The algorithm operates by building this tree one vertex at a time, from an arbitrary starting vertex, at each step adding the cheapest possible connection from the tree to another vertex.
The algorithm was developed in 1930 by Czech mathematician Vojtěch Jarník[1] and later rediscovered and republished by computer scientists Robert C. Prim in 1957[2] and Edsger W. Dijkstra in 1959.[3] Therefore, it is also sometimes called the Jarník's algorithm,[4] Prim–Jarník algorithm,[5] Prim–Dijkstra algorithm[6]
or the DJP algorithm.[7]
Other well-known algorithms for this problem include Kruskal's algorithm and Borůvka's algorithm.[8] These algorithms find the minimum spanning forest in a possibly disconnected graph; in contrast, the most basic form of Prim's algorithm only finds minimum spanning trees in connected graphs. However, running Prim's algorithm separately for each connected component of the graph, it can also be used to find the minimum spanning forest.[9] In terms of their asymptotic time complexity, these three algorithms are equally fast for sparse graphs, but slower than other more sophisticated algorithms.[7][6]
However, for graphs that are sufficiently dense, Prim's algorithm can be made to run in linear time, meeting or improving the time bounds for other algorithms.[10]
The algorithm may informally be described as performing the following steps:
In more detail, it may be implemented following the pseudocode below.
As described above, the starting vertex for the algorithm will be chosen arbitrarily, because the first iteration of the main loop of the algorithm will have a set of vertices in Q that all have equal weights, and the algorithm will automatically start a new tree in F when it completes a spanning tree of each connected component of the input graph. The algorithm may be modified to start with any particular vertex s by setting C[s] to be a number smaller than the other values of C (for instance, zero), and it may be modified to only find a single spanning tree rather than an entire spanning forest (matching more closely the informal description) by stopping whenever it encounters another vertex flagged as having no associated edge.
Different variations of the algorithm differ from each other in how the set Q is implemented: as a simple linked list or array of vertices, or as a more complicated priority queue data structure. This choice leads to differences in the time complexity of the algorithm. In general, a priority queue will be quicker at finding the vertex v with minimum cost, but will entail more expensive updates when the value of C[w] changes.
The time complexity of Prim's algorithm depends on the data structures used for the graph and for ordering the edges by weight, which can be done using a priority queue. The following table shows the typical choices:
A simple implementation of Prim's, using an adjacency matrix or an adjacency list graph representation and linearly searching an array of weights to find the minimum weight edge to add, requires O(|V|2) running time. However, this running time can be greatly improved by using heaps to implement finding minimum weight edges in the algorithm's inner loop.
A first improved version uses a heap to store all edges of the input graph, ordered by their weight. This leads to an O(|E| log |E|) worst-case running time. But storing vertices instead of edges can improve it still further. The heap should order the vertices by the smallest edge-weight that connects them to any vertex in the partially constructed minimum spanning tree (MST) (or infinity if no such edge exists). Every time a vertex v is chosen and added to the MST, a decrease-key operation is performed on all vertices w outside the partial MST such that v is connected to w, setting the key to the minimum of its previous value and the edge cost of (v,w).
Using a simple binary heap data structure, Prim's algorithm can now be shown to run in time O(|E| log |V|) where |E| is the number of edges and |V| is the number of vertices. Using a more sophisticated Fibonacci heap, this can be brought down to O(|E| + |V| log |V|), which is asymptotically faster when the graph is dense enough that |E| is ω(|V|), and linear time when |E| is at least |V| log |V|. For graphs of even greater density (having at least |V|c edges for some c > 1), Prim's algorithm can be made to run in linear time even more simply, by using a d-ary heap in place of a Fibonacci heap.[10][11]
Let P be a connected, weighted graph.  At every iteration of Prim's algorithm, an edge must be found that connects a vertex in a subgraph to a vertex outside the subgraph.  Since  P is connected, there will always be a path to every vertex.  The output Y of Prim's algorithm is a tree, because the edge and vertex added to tree Y are connected. Let Y1 be a minimum spanning tree of graph P. If Y1=Y then Y is a minimum spanning tree. Otherwise, let e be the first edge added during the construction of tree Y that is not in tree Y1, and V be the set of vertices connected by the edges added before edge e.  Then one endpoint of edge e is in set V and the other is not.  Since tree Y1 is a spanning tree of graph P, there is a path in tree Y1 joining the two endpoints.  As one travels along the path, one must encounter an edge f joining a vertex in set V to one that is not in set V.  Now, at the iteration when edge e was added to tree Y, edge f could also have been added and it would be added instead of edge e if its weight was less than e, and since edge f was not added, we conclude that
Let tree Y2 be the graph obtained by removing edge f from and adding edge e to tree Y1.  It is easy to show that tree Y2 is connected, has the same number of edges as tree Y1, and the total weights of its edges is not larger than that of tree Y1, therefore it is also a minimum spanning tree of graph P and it contains edge e and all the edges added before it during the construction of set V.  Repeat the steps above and we will eventually obtain a minimum spanning tree of graph P that is identical to tree Y.  This shows Y is a minimum spanning tree. The minimum spanning tree allows for the first subset of the sub-region to be expanded into a smaller subset X, which we assume to be the minimum.
The main loop of Prim's algorithm is inherently sequential and thus not parallelizable. However, the inner loop, which determines the next edge of minimum weight that does not form a cycle, can be parallelized by dividing the vertices and edges between the available processors.[12] The following pseudocode demonstrates this.
This algorithm can generally be implemented on distributed machines[12] as well as on shared memory machines.[13] The running time is 



O
(





|

V


|


2





|

P

|





)
+
O
(

|

V

|

log
⁡

|

P

|

)


{\displaystyle O({\tfrac {|V|^{2}}{|P|}})+O(|V|\log |P|)}

, assuming that the reduce and broadcast operations can be performed in 



O
(
log
⁡

|

P

|

)


{\displaystyle O(\log |P|)}

.[12] A variant of Prim's algorithm for shared memory machines, in which Prim's sequential algorithm is being run in parallel, starting from different vertices, has also been explored.[14] It should, however, be noted that more sophisticated algorithms exist to solve the distributed minimum spanning tree problem in a more efficient manner.
Ēriks Punculs (born 18 January 1994) is a Latvian professional footballer who plays as a forward for Valmiera and the Latvia national team.[1]
Punculs made his international debut for Latvia on 9 September 2019 in a UEFA Euro 2020 qualifying match against North Macedonia, which finished as a 0–2 away loss.[2]

This biographical article relating to Latvian football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Qarayusifli (Garayusifli) is a village and municipality in the Barda District of Azerbaijan. It has a population of 1,138.

This Barda Rayon location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 2020 Britcar Endurance Championship (known for sponsorship reasons as the 2020 Dunlop Endurance Championship) was a motor racing championship for GT cars, touring cars and sportscars held across England. The championship's field consists of varying types of cars from sportscar to GT and touring cars that compete in four classes, depending on horsepower, momentum, etc. It was the 19th season of a Britcar championship, the 9th run as the Britcar Endurance Championship, and the 5th run as the Dunlop Britcar Endurance Championship. It was the first Dunlop Endurance Championship run without Class 5 and below, after the formation of the Britcar Trophy Championship. The season began on 11 July at Croft Circuit and ended on 1 November at Snetterton Circuit. There was also a non-championship round at the Spa-Francorchamps in support of the 2019-20 FIA World Endurance Championship, where Endurance category competitors will participate in two races with the Trophy Category cars.[1]
Danny Harrison and Jem Hepworth won the overall and Class 1 championships, reigning champions Paul Bailey and Andy Schultz, along with Ross Wylie won Class 2, Dave Benett and Marcus Fothergill won the Class 3 championship and Luke Davenport, Mark Davenport and Marcos Vivian won the Class 4 championship.
The opening rounds of the championship at Donington Park were scheduled to be held on 10 April 2020. The season includes a non-championship round at Spa-Francorchamps postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[2][3][4] The Spa-Francorchamps round was moved to 15 August.[5][6]
Cars are assigned classed based on speed, horsepower, momentum, equipment fitted to the car and the car's model;
Class 1: GT3, prototype cars
Class 2: GT4, cup (one-make series) cars
Class 3: Cup (one-make series) cars
Class 4: GT4, cup and TCR cars
These entries were previously announced to compete in the 2020 season but couldn't due to the 2019-20 coronavirus pandemic.
Points are awarded as follows in all classes[38][39]

† – Drivers did not finish the race, but were classified as they completed over 60% of the race distance and were awarded half points.
Points are awarded as follows in all classes[39]
† – Drivers did not finish the race, but were classified as they completed over 60% of the race distance and were awarded half points.
Fast Forward was a cassette magazine documenting post-punk music in the early 1980s. It was edited in Melbourne, Australia, by Bruce Milne and Andrew Maine, with graphic design by Michael Trudgeon. The cassettes interspersed interviews with music and were packaged with printed artwork and distributed in record shops around Australia and abroad. Thirteen issues were produced between November 1980 and October 1982.[1]
Maine and Milne were presenters on independent Melbourne station 3RRR and had access to material via radio and Milne's connections with independent record stores Au Go Go and Missing Link Records. They had planned a magazine with a flexidisc, but found they were able to obtain large quantities of unsold pre-recorded cassettes from manufacturers. They bulk-erased these and repackaged them with new content and labels. Editing, erasing, and dubbing was done using equipment at the 3RRR studio.[2]
The temporary or makeshift nature of cassettes was part of the appeal. Milne told Rolling Stone's Andrea Jones in 1981 that "I don't see the music we put down on those tapes as being a permanent document like a record. We hope that people will hear the tape and then go out and see the bands".[3]
In a 2011 interview in Mess+Noise magazine, Milne said: "I was so fanatical about music. I was running gigs and pretending to be managing bands, starting a record label and working at Missing Link, and doing radio shows. When the whole punk thing happened I was right there at ground zero. There was a sense that finally our kind of music had come along. I knew it was incredibly important at the time, so I was trying to document it in any way that I could. By the time I started Fast Forward, in late 1980, I had already been writing for the major music magazines, but also doing fanzines for a number of years. As anyone who writes about music knows, you get to a stage where you go, 'This is a great record, but there are a limited number of adjectives I can use to describe it.' This frustrated me, but I wanted people to know about this music."[2]
A number of cassette magazines appeared in the early 1980s, such as the British pop magazine Mix, and Seattle's Sub Pop which alternated cassette and print editions and which later became a record label. It is likely that Fast Forward was one of the first cassette magazines, and that it inspired Sub Pop.[2]
Fast Forward was effectively a purchasable radio show (not a "compilation album" as some have termed it,[4] as interviews and other spoken-word material were integral to the content) in packaging which began with a simple one-piece "cover" in a plastic bag to a silk-screened wallet with various leaflets and booklets in its various pockets. Trudgeon explained that normally a "cassette is usually a small, miserably packaged object that has no intrinsic qualities".[5]
Highlights include live music from the Laughing Clowns, the Go-Betweens' demos for "Send me a Lullabye", Rowland Howard's "Shivers" as performed by The Young Charlatans, Pel Mel's "No Word from China" recorded as a "demo", and interviews with The Fall and The Birthday Party. The most ambitious Fast Forward was probably the double-issue; it included two ninety-minute cassettes and extra print material.
As Jon Stratton has demonstrated, Fast Forward was not based on a notion of "Australian music to the world", unlike, for instance, Mark Dodgson's Big Back Yard show which was distributed to non-profit radio around the world in the late 80s. It was not exclusively local and would feature music from anywhere, the prime criteria being the editors' taste, and the proviso that it had not (yet) been released on vinyl.
At the time of the last few issues, Fast Forward was selling thousands of copies, making money, and attracting investors. However, Milne and Maine's tastes in music diverged, with Maine desiring to become more mainstream.[2]
Milne quit, and Maine renamed Fast Forward to Crowd, a magazine-with-cassette with more of a fashion focus.[2] This became print-only with its second issue, and ceased publication after the third.
The National Film and Sound Archive holds a complete set of Fast Forward,[6] which has been preserved and digitised.
The RMIT Design Archives also holds a complete set of Fast Forward.[7]
San Tsuen (Chinese: 新村) or Lam Tsuen San Tsuen (Chinese: 林村新村) is a village in Lam Tsuen, Tai Po District, Hong Kong.
22°27′00″N 114°08′18″E﻿ / ﻿22.449937°N 114.138314°E﻿ / 22.449937; 114.138314

This Hong Kong location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Oscar Auerbach (January 1, 1905 – January 15, 1997) was an American pathologist and medical educator who significantly helped tie cigarette smoking to cancer.
Auerbach was born in Manhattan, New York City. He was the first child of European Jewish immigrants, Max and Jennie Auerbach.[1] He attended Staten Island Academy[2] but never completed high school or college. He entered New York University based on exams, then left without a degree to enter New York Medical College, receiving his MD in 1929. He later studied pathology in Vienna, where he met his wife.[3]
Auerbach worked at Staten Island's Sea View Hospital and Halloran Hospital in the 1930s and 1940s. Beginning in 1952, he worked for the Veterans Administration, holding the title senior medical investigator at his death. He also taught medicine at New York Medical College for 12 years and New Jersey Medical School for about 30 years.
Auerbach studied the link between smoking and cancer, and was called a "tireless" researcher. His studies were cited prominently in the 1964 Surgeon General's report on smoking, taking the evidence against smoking beyond statistical studies.
A resident of the Short Hills section of Millburn, New Jersey, Auerbach died at the age of 92 on January 15, 1997, at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, New Jersey.[3]

This biographical article related to a physician in the United States is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article related to pathology is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Dotori-muk[1] (Korean: 도토리묵) or acorn jelly[1] is a Korean dish. It is a jelly made from acorn starch. Although "muk" means "jelly", when used without qualifiers, it usually refers to dotori-muk. The practice of making dotori-muk originated in mountainous areas of ancient Korea, when abundant oak trees produced enough acorns each autumn to become a viable source of food. Dotori-muk does not spoil easily, so it was used as a lunch food when traveling a long way.[2]
Despite being a rich source of starch and proteins, acorns contain large amounts of tannins and other polyphenols, which prevent the human body from digesting them properly. Harvested acorns must be properly leached of the tannins prior to consumption.[3]
Acorns are either collected directly from the ground or knocked off the tree branches. The acorns are opened and the nutmeat ground into a fine orange-brown paste. The paste is then stirred into vats of water and the acorns' fiber is separated from the starch through sieving and settling.[4] The starch-water mixture is collected and allowed to sit so that the tannins in the starch diffuse into the water, which is changed several times. The overall soaking time depends on the amount of tannin in the paste.
The now-tannin-free starch-water suspension should have an off-white colour. This starch is allowed to completely settle at the bottom of the vat, the water drained away and the paste collected in trays to dry. The dried starch cake is then pulverized and packaged for sale. Dotori-muk is also commercially available in powdered form, which must be mixed with water, boiled until pudding-like in consistency, then set in a flat dish.
Like other muk, dotori-muk is most commonly eaten in the form of dotori-muk-muchim (도토리묵무침), a side dish in which small chunks of dotori-muk are seasoned and mixed with other ingredients such as slivered carrots and scallions, garlic, soy sauce, sesame oil, red chili pepper powder, and sesame seeds.
Muk-mari (묵말이) is also famous. In the Gujeuk neighbourhood of Daejeon, a "muk alley" took shape around the popular muk restaurant 'Grandma's House' (할머니집), which was founded in the late 1960s. At Expo '93 in Daejeon, Gujeuk dotori-muk was designated a representative local food and became nationally known.  Muk Cooking made by a woman started attracting people's attention. In particular, Muk-mari is made of salted seaweed (chopped seaweed powder) with its rich texture and is made of dried acorn.
During the first of the Japanese invasions of Korea in the Joseon Dynasty, King Seonjo took refuge in the north. Food shortages due to the invasion made it difficult for the villagers to find something to serve the king and his entourage, so they hurriedly made them dotori-muk. Later, even after returning to the palace, King Seonjo often ate dotori-muk as a sign that he would not forget the hardships of the war.[5]
John Moore Thorpe (April 18, 1890 – June 7, 1956) was an American college football player and coach.[1]  He served as the head football coach at Mount Union College—now known as Mount Union University—in Alliance, Ohio from 1922 to 1931, compiling a record of 55–32–7.[2]  Thorpe graduated from Leetonia High School, in Leetonia, Ohio, in 1910.  He later worked as a safety service director in Alliance.  He died there, on June 7, 1956, after a heart attack.[3][4]
The Fundamental Broadcasting Network (FBN) is a network of Conservative Christian radio stations in the United States, based out of the Grace Baptist Church in Newport, North Carolina.[5]
Programs heard on FBN include Family Altar with Lester Roloff, Scripture Reading with Alexander Scourby, Gospel Hour with Oliver B. Greene, Ranger Bill, along with other Christian programming. Its music is predominantly traditionalist in nature, consisting mostly of hymns and some older Southern gospel, with no contemporary Christian music.[6]
FBN programming is featured on six full-powered stations and 11 translators, as well as 21 additional affiliated stations and translators, most of which are owned and operated by independent Baptist churches, which carry Fundamental Broadcasting Network's programming either in-part or in-whole. FBN's flagship station is WOTJ 90.7 FM in Newport, North Carolina, which began broadcasting December 12, 1988.[7][4][8]
The Fundamental Broadcasting Network formerly operated two 50,000-watt shortwave stations, WTJC, which began broadcasting in 1999, and WBOH, which began broadcasting in 2002.[9][10][11] WBOH ceased broadcasting in 2010.[12]
In Greek mythology, the "Upper World" refers to the world where people live, in contrast to the Greek underworld—the land of the dead.[1]

This article relating to Greek mythology is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Bodoquero River (Spanish: El río Bodoquero) is one of the most important rivers in the Colombian municipality of Florencia, Colombia in the department of Caquetá. It serves as a natural boundary between the municipalities of Florencia and Morelia and is part of the Amazon River basin.
The Bodoquero River rises in the Eastern Cordillera mountain range (also known as the "Colombian Andes") southwest of the municipal seat of Florencia. Its waters meander through the territory in a north–south-easterly direction, finally flowing into the Orteguaza River, near the municipality of Milan.[1] Rivers in this region are often accompanied by the presence of shifting Oxbow lakes.[2]
River bank material was laid down in the Quaternary period, comprising mainly alluvial deposits and alluvial plains[3]

This Caquetá Department location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This Colombia-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ishaya Sha'aibu Audu ((Listenⓘ); 1 March 1927 – 29 August 2005) was a Nigerian doctor, professor, and politician.[1] A Kattafawa, Christian, he served as minister of external affairs (foreign minister) from 1979 to 1983 under Shehu Shagari.[2]
Audu was born on 1 March 1927, in Anchau, a village near Zaria, Kaduna State, to a father who had converted from Islam to Christianity.[3] Initially educated at St. Bartholomew's School in Wusasa, he moved to Yaba Higher College in Lagos[3] and then to University College, Ibadan (renamed University of Ibadan) in 1948. In 1951, he left for the University of London in England, where he stayed until 1954. In 1955, he studied at the University of Liverpool (also in England). It was in 1958 that he married his wife, Victoria, with whom he would father six children.[4]
Audu lectured in Internal Medicine at the University of Lagos in 1962 and was promoted to the position of Vice Chancellor of the Ahmadu Bello University in 1966.[4] He had been the personal physician of Ahmadu Bello whom the university is named after.[3] He also travelled to the United States where he was employed as an associate research professor at the University of Rochester, New York, and wrapped up his education at the Ohio University in Athens, Ohio, from 1964 until 1968.[4] Ishaya Audu was the vice presidential candidate of the Nigerian People's Party which had Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe as its presidential candidate in the 1979 and 1983 presidential Elections.
Audu was a member of the Nigeria Peoples Party when President Shehu Shagari gave Audu the position of Minister of External Affairs in 1979.[4] He also served as Nigeria's Ambassador to the United Nations. After the 1983 overthrow of Shagari's government by General Muhammadu Buhari (and the replacement of the Second Republic with military dictatorship), Audu was detained for a year.[5]
He was happily married to Victoria Abosede Ohiorhenuan from Ozalla, Owan West Edo State and they are blessed with six children.[6]
After his release Audu took up private practice at his own hospital in Samaru; he also founded his own church.[3] He died on 29 August 2005, while in the United States with his son, Paul Audu.[4]
Elementary Principles in Statistical Mechanics, published in March 1902, is a work of scientific literature by Josiah Willard Gibbs which is considered to be the foundation of modern statistical mechanics. Its full title was Elementary Principles in Statistical Mechanics, developed with especial reference to the rational foundation of thermodynamics.[1]
In this book, Gibbs carefully showed how the laws of thermodynamics would arise exactly from a generic classical mechanical system, if one allowed for a certain natural uncertainty about the state of that system.

The themes of thermodynamic connections to statistical mechanics had been explored in the preceding decades with Clausius, Maxwell, and Boltzmann, together writing thousands of pages on this topic.[2] One of Gibbs' aims in writing the book was to distill these results into a cohesive and simple picture. Gibbs wrote in 1892 to his colleague Lord RayleighJust now I am trying to get ready for publication something on thermodynamics from the a-priori point of view, or rather on 'statistical mechanics' [...] I do not know that I shall have anything particularly new in substance, but shall be contented if I can so choose my standpoint (as seems to me possible) as to get a simpler view of the subject."[2] He had been working on this topic for some time, at least as early as 1884 when he produced a paper (now lost except for its abstract) on the topic of statistical mechanics.[3]
Gibbs' book simplified statistical mechanics into a treatise of 207 pages. At the same time, Gibbs fully generalized and expanded statistical mechanics into the form in which it is known today. Gibbs showed how statistical mechanics could be used even to extend thermodynamics beyond classical thermodynamics, to systems of any number of degrees of freedom (including microscopic systems) and non-extensive systems.
At the time of the book's writing, the prevailing understanding of nature was purely in classical terms: Quantum mechanics had not yet been conceived, and even basic facts taken for granted today (such as the existence of atoms) were still contested among scientists. Gibbs was careful in assuming the least about the nature of physical systems under study, and as a result the principles of statistical mechanics laid down by Gibbs have retained their accuracy (with some changes in detail but not in theme), in spite of the major upheavals of modern physics during the early 20th century.[4]
V. Kumaran wrote the following comment regarding Elementary Principles in Statistical Mechanics:
... In this, he introduced the now standard concept of ‘ensemble’, which is a collection of a large number of indistinguishable replicas of the system under consideration, which interact with each other, but which are isolated from the rest of the universe. The replicas could be in different microscopic states, as determined by the positions and momenta of the constituent molecules, for example, but the macroscopic state determined by the pressure, temperature and / or other thermodynamic variables are identical.
Gibbs argued that the properties of the system, averaged over time, is identical to an average over all the members of the ensemble if the ‘ergodic hypothesis’ is valid. The ergodic hypothesis, which states that all the microstates of the system are sampled with equal probability, is applicable to most systems, with the exception of systems such as quenched glasses which are in metastable states. Thus, the ensemble averaging method provides us an easy way to calculate the thermodynamic properties of the system, without having to observe it for long periods of time.

Gibbs also used this tool to obtain relationships between systems constrained in different ways, for example, to relate the properties of a system at constant volume and energy with those at constant temperature and pressure. Even today, the concept of ensemble is widely used for sampling in computer simulations of the thermodynamic properties of materials, and has subsequently found uses in other fields such as quantum theory.[5]
Saint-Bonnet-Briance (French pronunciation: [sɛ̃ bɔnɛ bʁijɑ̃s]; Limousin: Sent Bonet Briança) is a commune in the Haute-Vienne department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region in west-central France.
The river Briance forms most of the commune's southern border.

This Haute-Vienne geographical article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Steven Frederic Sapontzis[2] (born February 9, 1945) is an American philosopher and professor emeritus of philosophy at California State University, East Bay who specializes in animal ethics, environmental ethics and meta-ethics.
Sapontzis was born in New York City, the son of Zissis Peter and Lea Marie Vial Sapontzis.[1] He obtained his BA from Rice University in 1967, his MPhil in 1970, and PhD from Yale University in 1971;[3] his thesis was entitled Merleau-Ponty and Philosophical Methodology.[4] Sapontzis joined the philosophy faculty at California State University, East Bay, in 1971, and became professor emeritus in 1999.[3]
Sapontzis was co-founder in 1985 of the journal Between the Species: A Journal of Ethics and served as its initial co-editor.[5] He was a member of the board of the American Philosophical Quarterly (1991–1994), and sat on the animal welfare research committee at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory (1986–1990).[6]
In 1983, Sapontzis founded, with his wife, the Hayward Friends of Animals Humane society.[7] They now operate Second Chance, Helping the Pets of People in the Need, in California.[7] Sapontzis was also one of the first members of the board of directors of the Society for the Study of Ethics and Animals.[1]
Sapontzis has authored numerous papers,[8] as well as two books: Morals, Reason, and Animals (1987)[9] and Subjective Morals (2011).[10] He also edited the book Food for Thought: The Debate over Eating Meat (2004).[11]
Euconosia aspersa is a moth of the subfamily Arctiinae first described by Francis Walker in 1862. It is found on Borneo and Bali.[1] The habitat consists of alluvial forests, including regenerating forests, as well as coastal forests.[2]

This Lithosiina-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
"She Got Me" is a song recorded by Swiss singer Luca Hänni. It was written by Hänni, Laurell Barker, Frazer Mac, Jenson Vaughan, Jon Hällgren, and Lukas Hällgren, while production was helmed by the latter two. It was released for digital download as a single on 8 March 2019. "She Got Me" represented Switzerland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2019 in Tel Aviv.[1] It was performed during the second semi-final, where it qualified for the final. It finished in fourth place with 364 points, though this became Hänni's internationally successful song.
The song represented Switzerland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2019, after Luca Hänni was internally selected by the Swiss broadcaster. On 28 January 2019, a special allocation draw was held which placed each country into one of the two semi-finals, as well as which half of the show they would perform in. Switzerland was placed into the second semi-final, to be held on 16 May 2019, and was scheduled to perform in the first half of the show. Once all the competing songs for the 2019 contest had been released, the running order for the semi-finals was decided by the show's producers rather than through another draw, so that similar songs were not placed next to each other. Switzerland performed in position 4. It qualified for the final, which took place on 18 May 2019.[2] It finished in fourth place with 364 points. It became Switzerland's first Top 5 finish since 1993.
‡ Sales+streaming figures based on certification alone.
James Iwan Axel Dickson (18 March 1899 – 6 March 1980) was a Swedish politician, agronomist and chamberlain.
Dickson was born on 18 March 1899 in Gothenburg, Sweden, the son of Axel Dickson and his wife Nancy Bratt.[1] He passed studentexamen at Lundsbergs boarding school in 1917 and gained an international flight certificate the same year. In 1920, Dickson was posted to the Swedish Army Air Force (Arméflyget). Three years later he graduated with a agronomist degree in Alnarp before making repeated trips to several European countries and to North America, Asia and Africa.[1]
Dickson became a Valet de chambre in 1928 and captain of the landstorm in 1938 and he served as captain of the Finnish Army during the Winter War from 1939 to 1940. Back in Sweden, Dickson was appointed chamberlain in 1940 and he became conscript captain in 1944.[1] He served in the landstorm from 1935 to 1938 and from 1943 to 1946 and from 1951. Dickson became captain of the reserve in 1948.[2] During World War II, Dickson was also commander of the so called "D Group" of the C-byrån, the Swedish foreign intelligence service, responsible of the provinces of Jämtland and Härjedalen.[3]
Dickson served as chairman of the Kommunalstämma from 1927 to 1951, of the municipal council from 1927 to 1939 and from 1944 to 1951, of the municipal board (Kommunalnämnd) from 1927 to 1939 and of the Kyrkostämman in 1940.[2] He served as a member of a county council from 1935 to 1938, from 1943 to 1946 and from 1951 to 1966.[4] Furthermore, Dickson was a member of the lower house of the Riksdag for The Right from 1941 to 1968 (Allmänna beredningsutskottet, Stadsrevisionen in 1966 for the Right wing party).[4] He also served as an adviser in the Ministry of Communications in 1947 and in the Ministry of the Interior from 1948.[5] He was a member of the Council of Europe from 1949 to 1956, a member of the 1947 Aviation Investigation (1947 års luftfartsutredning), of the National Public Baths Investigation (Statens folkbadsutredning) from 1948 to 1954 and of the 1954 års brandlagsrevision from 1954 to 1960. Dickson also served as member of the City Council (Stadsfullmäktige) from 1951 to 1958.[2] Dickson also drew attention when he brought a grass snake as a pet into the Riksdag. He had taken care of the snake that his children found injured in the forest.[6] The character "Snoke-Dicke" in the Barna Hedenhös book Barna Hedenhös blir kungliga (1954) is inspired by Dickson.[7]
Dickson was president of Gothenburg's Rotary Club from 1939 to 1940.[1] He was chairman of the Swedish Association of Conscript Officers (Värnpliktiga officerares riksförbund) from 1944 to 1947, of the Norra Älvsborgs högerförbund ("Northern Älvsborg's Moderate Association") from 1951 to 1965 (honorary chairman in 1965[4]) and of the Sweden-Finland Society (Samfundet Sverige-Finland) from 1955 to 1959. Dickson was chairman of the board of the British Factory in Gothenburg from 1955 and of the AB Pripp & Lyckholm from 1956 to 1959.[2]
In 1923 he married Vanja Bergh (1903–2004),[8] the daughter of Martin Bergh and Anna Strokirk. Children: Maud (born 1924), Marianne (born 1926), Birgitta (born 1929) and Archibald (born 1933).[2]
Dickson died on 6 March 1980 in Alingsås.[9]
Dickson's awards:[2]
Liam Carberry (born 24 February 1993) is an English rugby league footballer who plays for the Rochdale Hornets in the Betfred Championship.
On 23 April 2014, Carberry signed a new deal that would keep him at the club for at least another year.[3][4] The young hooker has yet to make a Super League appearance for Widnes after breaking his leg and damaging ankle ligaments during a pre-season friendly.[citation needed]
He played for Whitehaven.[citation needed]
A serious outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease occurred in South Korea in 2010–2011, leading to the culling of hundreds of thousands of pigs (as of January 2011) in an effort to contain it. The outbreak began in November 2010 in pig farms in Andong, Gyeongsangbuk-do, and has since spread in the country rapidly.[1][2] More than 100 cases of foot-and-mouth disease have been confirmed in the country so far,[1] and South Korean officials have started a mass cull of approximately 12 percent of the entire domestic pig population and 107,000 of three million cattle of the country to halt the outbreak.[1][2]
As parts of the culling process, it was reported by some sections of the English-language media that the South Korean government had decided to bury approximately 1.4 million pigs alive, which drew complaints from animal activists.[2] The American animal rights organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals started online campaigns, arguing that the animals should be vaccinated rather than buried alive.[2]
Joyce D'Silva, Director of Public Affairs for Compassion in World Farming, said that they are "appalled", and argued that it is contrary to international guidelines on humane culling, which the South Korean government allegedly endorsed.[3] However the local media had only reported that there had been incidents of swine being buried alive, and that a South Korean agriculture ministry official had confirmed some incidents, but that they had been few, explaining that "officials are rushed to stop the spread, and the number of people involved is too small for the operation,"[1] and that until a more humane way to cull the infected swine is found, the government will have to resort to burying the infected animals alive because the "government has temporarily run out of euthanasia drugs."[4]
On 12 January 2011, local officials stated that more than US$1 billion worth of livestock have been lost so far to the disease, including government efforts to halt the spread.[1] According to Kim Jae-hong, a veterinary science professor at Seoul National University, the outbreak is "the most serious in Korea's history" and it is difficult to say when the spread of the disease will be stopped, and he said that "the most important thing right now is to control movement in and out of the farmhouses that are affected, and thoroughly disinfect the cars around the area".[1]
South Korea's Citizens' Institute for Environmental Studies revealed 32 places that had dead livestocks buried around 4 drinking water facilities in Gyeonggi-do.[5]
A ProMED-mail post described the epizootic and subsequent cancellations of festivities as being reminiscent of Britain's February 19, 2001 foot-and-mouth disease outbreak, and even more so of an outbreak in Japan beginning late March 2010, which was caused by the same strain of the virus.  In that epizootic cattle herds were found to be 3.9-4.5 times more susceptible to the virus than pig herds, but pig herds had 5.0-13.6 times greater relative infectiousness; thus cattle on infected premises suffered a cumulative incidence of 8.5%, whereas 36.4% of pigs were infected.[6]
Māsarjawaih (Arabic: ماسرجويه) was one of the earliest Jewish physicians of Persian[1] origin, and the earliest translator from the Syriac; he lived in Basra about 683 (Anno Hegirae 64). His name, distorted, has been transmitted in European sources; it has not yet been satisfactorily explained. Neuda (in "Orient, Lit." vi. 132) compares the name "Masarjawaih" with the Hebrew proper name "Mesharsheya"; but the ending "-waih" points to a Persian origin. The form "Masarjis" has been compared with the Christian proper name "Mar Serjis"; but it is not known that Masarjis embraced either Christianity or Islam.
Masarjawaih's son, who also was a translator, and was the author of two treatises (on colors and on foods), was called "'Isa", that is, "Jesus"; whose name indicates that this son had converted to Christianity.
Masarjawaih translated the medical Pandects of the archdeacon or presbyter Aaron of Alexandria (fl. c. 610–641) from the Syriac into Arabic and added to the thirty chapters of this translation two of his own. This is believed to be the first scientific book to have been translated into Arabic.  He also wrote in Arabic two treatises, "The Virtues of Foods, Their Advantage and Their Disadvantage", and "The Virtues of the Medicinal Plants, Their Advantage and Their Disadvantage". None of these three writings has been preserved. Their contents, however, are known to a certain extent by quotations. How much Masarjawaih added to the translation of Aaron's pandects can hardly be decided, as the works themselves are preserved in fragments only.
Lloydricia Cameron (born 8 April 1996) is a Jamaican track and field athlete who competes predominantly in the shot put.[1]
Born in Miami, Florida, to Jamaican parents, Cameron competed for the USA at the 2013 World Youth Championships in Ukraine and the Pan American Junior Championship in Edmonton, Canada in 2015, finishing second in the discus, before choosing to represent the country of her parents. Her mother, Virginia Walcott, had been a track runner for Mount Alvernia in Montego Bay, Jamaica.[2][3]
Cameron was the 2018 Jamaican Senior Championships gold medalist in the Shot Put, and whilst competing for the University of Florida was the SEC champion at the Indoor Shot Put in 2018, and the Outdoor Shot Put in 2017.[4]
In the shot put at the Pan American Games in Lima, Peru, in 2019 she finished 7th overall.[5]
In July 2021, Cameron was named in the Jamaican Olympic team for the delayed 2020 Summer Games in Tokyo having qualified for the women’s shot put through her world ranking.[6]

This biographical article relating to Jamaican athletics is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Urban wilderness refers to informal green spaces within urban areas that distant enough from urbanized areas so that human activities cannot be registered.[1] Urban wilderness areas within cities have been shown to beneficially impact the public's perception of wilderness and nature, making this an important element to future city planning[2]
Key traits of urban wilderness that differentiate it from other urban green spaces:
Various urban wilderness areas have been established throughout the world. Examples include the Knoxville Urban Wilderness in Knoxville, TN,[1] Purgatory Creek Natural Area in San Marcos, TX,[3] the Danube-Auen National Park in Vienna and Lower Austria,[2] the Turkey Mountain Urban Wilderness Area in Tulsa, and the Milwaukee River Greenway in Milwaukee, WI.[4]
The nineteenth and twentieth centuries saw the urbanization of cities. Jacob Riis and other reformers fought for parks in urban areas.[5]
While many societies had traditions of intense urban plantings, such as the rooftops of pre-conquistador Mexico City, these traditions did not reemerge on a larger scale in the industrialized world until the creation of naturalistic urban parks, such as the ones by Calvert Vaux[6] and Frederick Law Olmsted.[7]
More recently, groups such as squatters and Reclaim The Streets have performed guerrilla plantings, worked in and on abandoned buildings, and torn holes in highway asphalt to fill with soil and flowers.[8] These actions have been effective in creating new planted zones in economically stagnant areas like urban Eastern Germany, where abandoned buildings have been reverted to forest-like conditions.[9]
The Guyue Bridge (simplified Chinese: 古月桥; traditional Chinese: 古月橋; pinyin: Gǔyuè Qiáo; lit. 'Ancient Moon Bridge') is an arch bridge located in Yiwu, Zhejiang province, China.[1]
The bridge is located in Chi'an Town (simplified Chinese: 赤岸镇; traditional Chinese: 赤岸鎮; pinyin: Chì'àn Zhèn), and it's about 100-meter western of the Yazhi Street (雅治街). It goes across the Dragon Creek (traditional Chinese: 龍溪, simplified Chinese: 龙溪, pinyin: Lóng Xī).[2]
It is a single span arch bridge. The design is very special: more precisely, its structure feature is girder-arch, and the girders are arranged like ribs. Such a design can be found in the famous painting Along the River During the Qingming Festival of Song dynasty by Zhang Zeduan.[citation needed]
The bridge was completed in 1213, the sixth year of the Jiading Era (Chinese: 嘉定; pinyin: Jiā Dìng), Southern Song dynasty. Since then it has never been rebuilt or repaired.[2]
On the body of the bridge are engraved 12 Chinese characters: Huangsong Jiading Guiyou Jiqiu Runyue Jianzao[2] (simplified Chinese: 皇宋嘉定癸酉季秋润月建造; traditional Chinese: 皇宋嘉定癸酉季秋閏月建造; pinyin: Huáng Sòng Jiā Dìng Guǐ Yǒu Jì Qiū Rùn Yuè Jiàn Zào),[1] which literally means: Constructed in Autumn September Imperial Song Jiangding Era the Year of Guiyou ("Huang" means Imperial. "Song" reveals Song dynasty. "Jiading" is an era 1208-1224 of the Emperor Ningzong of Song. "Guiyou" is the year 1213, it's the Sexagenary cycle-way to record years in traditional Chinese calendar. "Jiqiu" means the late autumn period of a year.
All Night Radio was an American indie rock band formed in Los Angeles, California, United States.
Dave Scher and Jimi Hey, hail from Los Angeles, and have known each other since 1995, when a 16-year-old Hey would call Scher's late-night radio program on KXLU requesting Six Finger Satellite on a repeated basis. This KXLU connection led them to playing music together in Bee Venom and later resulted in the formation of the more psychedelic country-minded Beachwood Sparks.[1] In between leaving the group in 1997 and rejoining it in 2002, Hey also turned up in groups such as Strictly Ballroom, Tristeza, Glass Candy and the Shattered Theater, and The Rapture. The two have also moonlighted as members of Lilys. After completing the Beachwood Sparks’ tour of summer 2002, Scher and Hey joined forces to create All Night Radio. They dubbed this new sound the “Spirit Stereo Frequency.”[2]
The band broke up due to creative differences in 2004.[1]
Marius Ninel Șumudică (born 4 March 1971) is a Romanian professional football manager and former player who most recently was the head coach of Süper Lig club Gaziantep.
Șumudică played as a striker and started out at Sportul Studențesc in 1989, going on to represent five other teams in his native country as well as Marítimo, Debrecen and Omonia abroad. In the 1998–99 season, he was part of Mircea Lucescu's squad that won Rapid București the national title, managing to score 17 goals in the process. With "the White-Burgundies", he also claimed two Cupa României trophies in the 1997–98 and 2001–02 campaigns.
After retiring as a player, Șumudică became an assistant coach at Rapid București in 2005. He went on to manage numerous sides both home and abroad, before bringing Astra Giurgiu its first-ever Liga I title in the 2015–16 season, at his third stint with the club. As a result, Șumudică was named the 2016 Romania Coach of the Year by the Gazeta Sporturilor newspaper. Apart from his time in Romania, he has coached sides in Greece, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey.
On 28 April 2015, Șumudică was appointed as manager of Astra Giurgiu, following Dorinel Munteanu's resignation.[1] It was his third term at the club, after two short spells in 2009 and 2011. He led the team to a 4th-place finish, qualifying them for the UEFA Europa League. The European campaign was almost a success, as Astra stopped short of reaching the Europa League group stages after knocking out West Ham United in the third round, but lost to AZ Alkmaar in the play-offs.
Domestically, despite the poor start which saw Astra losing 1–5 to previous runner-ups ASA Targu Mures, Astra managed to finish the regular season on first place, 3 points above Dinamo București. However, Șumudică was suspended 6 months by the Romanian FA on charges of betting on football matches.[2] He later managed to have his sentence reduced to 2 months by appeal.[3]  Despite his suspension, Astra kept their momentum during the play-offs, ending up in them being crowned Liga I champions for the first time in their history, also marking Șumudică's first domestic title as manager.
After a quick exit to Danish champions Copenhagen in the UEFA Champions League, Șumudică managed to guide Astra to 2016–17 UEFA Europa League group stage eliminating West Ham – for the second time in a row – along the way, after a 1–0 win in London. In the group stages, he faced Roma, Viktoria Plzeň and Austria Wien.[4] Despite losing the first two games of the group with Austria Wien (2–3 at Giurgiu) and Roma (0–4 in Italy), Astra managed two 2–1 away wins at Plzeň and Wien (along with a home draw with Viktoria) to stay in the race for a place in the knock-out stages. In the end, Astra's 0–0 draw with Roma and Austria Wien's failure against Plzeň in the last matchday secured Astra's place in the tournament's round of 32. There, they were eliminated by Belgian side Genk after a 2–2 draw at Giurgiu followed by 0–1 defeat in Belgium.
Astra's campaign in the league, meanwhile, was disappointing, with the team finishing 5th and losing the Romanian Cup final to FC Voluntari. However, due to Astra's position in the league and Voluntari not applying for a European license, the vacant spot was given to Astra, thus qualifying yet again in Europe.
On 14 June 2019, Șumudică was appointed as manager of Turkish club Gaziantep.[5] In January 2021, following an away defeat in the Süper Lig against Sivasspor, the club announced that they had parted ways with the Romanian manager, following a few weeks of tension and public discussion about his contract.[6]
On 28 August 2021, CFR Cluj terminated the contract of Șumudică, ending his 3-month stint in charge after a disappointing campaign for Europe.[7]
On 23 March 2022, Șumudică returned to manage Al-Shabab until the end of the 2021–22 season.[8]
On 30 June 2022, Șumudică was appointed as manager of Al-Raed.[9]
Rapid București
Marítimo
Astra Giurgiu
CFR Cluj
Individual
José Javier Eguiguren Ríofrío (3 December 1816 – 1884) was acting President of Ecuador from 6 October 1875 to 9 December 1875.
He was Minister of Finance from 1870 to 1871 and from 1874 to 1875.[1]

This article about an Ecuadorian politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Jaron Vicario (born 16 August 1999) is a professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder for Eerste Divisie club Den Bosch. Born in the Dutch mainland, he has represented Curaçao at youth level. 
Vicario began his career in the youth set-up at SC Botlek, before moving to VV Spijkenisse.[1] In 2016, Vicario joined Feyenoord, signing his first professional contract with the club on 24 May 2018.[2] On 24 June 2019, Eerste Divisie club FC Dordrecht announced the signing of Vicario.[3] He left the club after his contract expired in June 2021.[4]
On 9 June 2023, Vicario signed a two-year contract with Den Bosch.[5]
During the 2018 CONCACAF U-20 Championship, Vicario made four appearances for Curaçao under-20's, scoring twice.[6]

This biographical article related to Curaçaoan association football is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article related to association football in the Netherlands, about a midfielder, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Perai Free Industrial Zone (Perai FIZ) is a free trade zone within Seberang Perai in the Malaysian state of Penang. Located within the suburb of Perai and 4.7 km (2.9 mi) south of Butterworth, the Perai FIZ was established in 1980 with the aim of becoming a major manufacturing hub for bulk items, leveraging its proximity to the Port of Penang and the railway line that links it to the rest of western Peninsular Malaysia.[2][3]
The zone has since attracted numerous multinational companies such as Mattel, Flex, Sanmina, JinkoSolar and Honeywell.[4][5] In 2022, the Perai FIZ, along with other industrial estates within Central Seberang Perai, received RM1.05 billion of foreign direct investments (FDI), accounting for nearly 11% of Penang's total FDI that year.[6]
Simón Alonso Ramírez Cuevas (born 3 November 1998) is a Chilean professional footballer who plays as a defender for Unión Española.[1]
His twin brother, Antonio Ramírez, is also a professional footballer. Along with Simón, he has played for Huachipato, Chile U17 and Universidad de Concepción.[2]

This biographical article related to a Chilean association football defender is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Johanna Poethig (born 1956) is an American Bay Area visual, public and performance artist whose work includes murals, paintings, sculpture and multimedia installations.[1][2][3] She has split her practice between community-based public art and gallery and performance works that mix satire, feminism and cultural critique.[4][5][6] Poethig emerged in the 1980s as socially engaged collaborations with youth and marginalized groups (e.g., by artists such as Tim Rollins and K.O.S.) gained increasing attention;[7] she has worked as an artist and educator with diverse immigrant communities, children from five to seventeen, senior citizens, incarcerated women and mental health patients, among others.[8][9][10] Artweek critic Meredith Tromble places her in an activist tradition running from Jacques-Louis David through Diego Rivera to Barbara Kruger, writing that her work, including more than fifty major murals and installations, combines "the idealist and caustic."[11]
Poethig has been commissioned to create public art projects throughout the Bay Area and California, and in Chicago, Milwaukee, Cuba and Tbilisi, Georgia.[12][13][14][15] She has exhibited internationally, and at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Bronx Museum of the Arts, Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive (BAM/PFA), Asian Art Museum (San Francisco) and Yerba Buena Center for the Arts. She has been recognized with awards from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and California Arts Council, among others.[16][17] Poethig is based in Oakland, California.
Poethig was born in 1956 in Morristown, New Jersey.[18] Her parents, Eunice and Richard, both Presbyterian missionaries, moved the family to Manila shortly after Poethig's birth; she grew up in a Filipino community, speaking fluent Tagalog and learning about social issues and global politics from a Filipino perspective.[18][7][19] In 1972, the family moved to Chicago, where she studied at the American Academy of Art and became interested in public art, by William Walker among others.[10] In the late 1970s, she attended University of California, Santa Cruz, earning a BA in anthropology, politics and art in 1980.[7][6]
After graduating, Poethig moved to San Francisco and made connections with women artists and the SoMA (South of Market) Filipino community.[18][20] Her work on a mural for The Women's Building with six artists in 1982 set her on a collaborative, public-art path.[20] In the subsequent decade, she won mural commissions in the Bay Area and Los Angeles and California Arts Council awards; she also taught art at a SoMA mental health center.[18]
Poethig augmented these experiences with graduate studies at Mills College (MFA, 1992), which added a more conceptual layer to her work.[19] In 1994, she founded Inner City Public Arts Projects for Youth and served as artistic director for six years on a number of collaborative projects in San Francisco's Tenderloin and SoMA neighborhoods.[21][22][1] That same year, she joined the faculty of the Visual and Public Art department at California State University, Monterey Bay (CSUMB), where she taught until 2018 and is Professor Emerita.[23]
In both public and gallery/performance art, Poethig draws on her cross-cultural experience and social consciousness to create inclusive work intended to offer an alternative to dominant advertising messages and American conventions of individualism and competition.[19][7][1] Writers place her among a second generation of San Francisco community muralists, distinguished by their greater eclecticism, departure from the original Mexican mural model, and focus on identity issues.[12][1] Her murals are noted for their mix of realist and expressionist modes, balance of message and aesthetics, atypical use of stylization and abstraction, and emphasis on previously unrecognized Southeast Asian communities.[24][25][9] Poethig's gallery/performance work takes a satirical feminist approach, often critiquing glamour, consumerism and constructions of identity.[26][19][10]
Many of Poethig's murals pay tribute to San Francisco immigrant groups. Ang Lipi ni Lapu-Lapu (1984) depicts the origin legends and history of Filipino immigration to the United States, while Gabrielino Nation (1995, San Pedro, with Roberto Salas) recognizes the Gabrielinos, the area's earliest inhabitants.[9][27][28][29] In Lakas Sambayanan (People's Power) (1986), she commemorated the peaceful overthrow of the Marcos dictatorship and rise to power of Corazon Aquino in the Philippines; its surreal central image depicts marchers pouring out of a shattered Ferdinand Marcos bust alongside images of Aquino cradling her slain husband, protesters and symbols of the country's catholic, Muslim and historic influences.[27][24][30] The I-Hotel Mural (2010)—on San Francisco's International Hotel, a home to pioneer Chinese and Filipino immigrants demolished in 1977 and reopened in 2005—depicts the long struggle for low-income housing and features former (evicted) residents and activists in that fight.[30][31]
The multistory Calle de la Eternidad (1993) represents the dislocation, adaptation and aspiration of the Los Angeles Latina/o community through a monumental pair of hands outstretched toward the sky (and background skyscrapers), which emerge from an Aztec calendar containing an Octavio Paz poem; the title references the Broadway Avenue location, once a funeral procession route known as the "Street of Eternity."[20][12][32][33] The colorful, three-dimensional Tiene la lumbre por dentro (He Has the Fire Within Him) (2000, Sonoma State University) honors César Chavez and the Farm Workers Movement with images of Chavez, Dolores Huerta. the Filipino labor movement and workers' hands, Chavez's words, and non-traditional layered wood surfaces expressing the rawness of the land.[23][34][35]
Some of Poethig's other well-known murals include the four-story Harvey Milk Memorial Mural (1988), depicting Milk in a free-spirited scene at a pride parade;[27][24][36] To Cause To Remember (1992), an 80-foot image of a fallen Statue of Liberty chained at the feet, suggesting the nation's unrealized intentions;[12] the 200-foot-long Stamps of Victory along Los Angeles's 110 Freeway (commissioned for the 1994 World Cup), which celebrates sport as a conduit for communication and international relations with global soccer-themed postage stamps;[23][37][38][28] and Loop Tattoo (2005, Chicago), which employs a central swirl of dancers, musicians and athletes to represent the city's rich cultural life and a community sensibility.[13]
Two later works expand on the community theme: Intertwined (2010) encircles a Tenderloin low-income housing development in a colorful, eight-story ceramic-tile ribbon with outstretched hands and uplifting text, while the glass-mosaic Rainbow Power (2019, Oakland) uses a colorful light-wave-like backdrop that intersects local youth figures as a metaphor for the benefits of shared culture, ideas and friendship.[39][40][41] Skylight: Transmission of Knowledge/Windows to Justice (2019, CSUMB) takes a more global perspective that includes an oculus open to the sky and symbolic references to the environment and sustenance, justice, ancient and modern knowledge, and multi-national perspectives.[42]
Poethig's other collaborative public projects include ceramic-tile floor works and reliefs developed from fantastical children's drawings and youth workshops, playground and park sculptural installations, and city-sponsored poster and advertisement programs that incorporate conceptual approaches and critiques of capitalism.[43][21][44][45] For Underdog Ad Agency (1995–6, with Delfina Piretti), she designed bus shelter posters with incarcerated women that lampooned corporate marketing strategies and encouraged positive change; a 1999 collaboration with prison inmates and CSUMB students produced bus shelter posters that addressed rising incarceration rates.[1][35] Subsequent projects include "How I Saved San Francisco: New Media Heroes" (2000)—featuring youths cast as social-change heroes in imitation-movie posters installed in city kiosks—and "Cab Top Ads" (2001, also with Piretti), a series of ads on taxis that offered alternatives to media images of women and critical messages regarding objectification, sex work and gender issues.[45][1][46][47]
In 2014, Poethig and Mildred Howard were chosen by the East Bay Transit board as lead artists, with Peter Richards and Joyce Hsu, to integrate public art into the architecture of 34 planned stations along a new 9.5-mile system.[48][6] The project, Cultural Corridor/Urban Flow—completed in early 2021—uses the title's flow motif, visually connecting the stations with a ribbon of descriptive and poetic words and images reflecting the many neighborhoods it passes through. Its elements were rendered in laser-cut aluminum on handrail panels and decorative windscreens.[49] They incorporate community input, ideas and facts as well as aesthetic cues (e.g., traditional cultures' cut papercrafts, architecture, colors), while also taking advantage of shifts in light and cast shadow conditions to create. shifting visual interest.[49]
Poethig's wide-ranging gallery and performance art investigates issues involving colonization, identity and glamour, consumerism and technology through statuettes and paintings, subversive mock products, installations, games, and performance.[26][19][10] She has collaborated on video/sound collaborations with her husband, composer Chris Brown, and performances with the artist collective DIWA Arts and the group WIGband (herself, Barbara Golden, and sometimes others).[50][51][52] Since 1986, WIGband has produced politically incorrect shows ("Lifestyles of the Poor and Shameless", 1989), films (the exercise video Silver Abs and Golden Buns), songs and CDs (Lick Me to Heaven).[50][19][17]
Much of Poethig's work explores mainstream and cross-cultural constructions of identity. Her NEA-award-winning "The Untouchables" (1996) consisted of small ceramic figures cast from the ubiquitous Barbie doll mold that were adapted into representations of the American white upper class.[19][17] That work mutated into "Babaylan Barbies" depicting Filipino archetypes and idols—including a shamaness, beauty pageant queen and biker—which were featured in a Manila/San Francisco exhibit of Filipina-American artists at San Francisco State University in 1998.[19][53][54] Poethig's exhibition Barrionics Does Barrioque (2003, with Anne Perez and Rico Reyes) explored similar themes through paintings (gold-framed vignettes of body parts) and mixed-media performance that employed exaggeration and incongruity to comment on Filipinaness, femininity, imperialism and globalization; Artweek's Mark van Proyen described it as "a new performativity" embracing camp, cultural leveling and mockery of commodity fetishism.[3][55] In 2016, Poethig curated "Songs for Women Living With War" (ProArts Gallery), which memorialized and gave voice to the experiences of women in war, in particular, Filipino "comfort women" during World War II.[56][57] Poethig contributed Bahay Ni Lola (2016), a large, three-walled installation/monument that included the faces of comfort women, a woven banig (Filipino grass mat) draped with stories from women collected by author M. Evelina Galang, and voices knit into an abstract sound composition by Anne Perez.[56][10][57]
Poethig also frequently examines the excesses and contradictions of consumer capitalism.[26][11][10] In the late 1990s, she conceived a fictitious consumer products conglomeration (International House of Cargo) and alter-ego (CEO Angel Savage, costumed as a hospital candy-striper/nun) in order to satirize the "cargo cult" mentality of American market culture.[26][58] The firm's painted and sculpted offerings included technologically advanced pharmaceuticals (the "RX Series"), new age cures (Omega 3-infused cigarettes and Spring Chicken: Genomix, a bio-engineered, therapeutic snack food), beauty products and fashions, pitched as effortless solutions to a conflicting array of fears, fetishes and neuroses.[26]
In two multimedia exhibitions—"The Glamour Summit" (2000) and "Glamorgeddon" (2015)—Poethig considered glamour as a form of colonization and social construct, poking fun at fashion aesthetics and obsessions with paintings, performances and refigured objects (e.g., bedazzled hardhats, traffic cones and bowling pins);[59][10][60] reviewers describe the shows as "kitschy, trashy, intelligent" balances of "extravagance and thoughtfulness."[5][61][62] In the show "Driven" (2007, Togonon Gallery), Poethig narrowed her focus to the American dependency on large, gas-guzzling vehicles to assuage angst (loneliness, inadequacy, fear); the show featured paintings of women seemingly seduced or pacified by their vehicles and a large painted-tile rendering of a Hummer (Security), accompanied by an ominous, almost subliminal soundtrack conceived with Chris Brown.[63][11]
In the later shows "Positional Vertigo," "Phyllotaxis and Parastichy in a Time of Love and War," and "Impossible Matter" (Mercury 20 Gallery, 2017–9), Poethig explored the innate search for the mystical in a culture of media overload, mathematical patterns in nature's terrestrial and extraterrestrial life systems, and alternative natural histories through spinning wheels of fortune, paintings, prints, sculpture costumes and props, and original texts.[10][64][65][66]
Poethig has been recognized by the California Arts Council (1989, 1995, 1996), Social and Public Art Resource Center (SPARC) in Los Angeles (1993 commission; Siqueiros Award, 2013), National Endowment for the Arts (1996), and Potrero Nuevo Fund Prize (1999), among others; her ceramic-and-paint mural Dragonfly won a San Francisco Beautification Award (2001).[67][68][19][17][69] In 2021, she was awarded a California Arts Council Legacy Artist Fellowship.[70] She has received artist residencies in Manila and Tbilisi (Georgia), and at the Montalvo Arts Center and Headlands Center for the Arts, among others.[6][15][71]
SS-Heimatschutz Slowakei (HS) was an auxiliary military formation within the Waffen-SS in Slovakia during World War II.
From 1943, the agents of the Deutsche Partei of the Slovakian Germans, sent news of partisan activities in Slovakia to Germany. In the summer of 1944, these reports were becoming more common and more specific about the activities of partisans in Eastern and Central Slovakia. On July 25, 1944, a meeting of Slovak German leaders was held in Bratislava. Here, Franz Karmasin called for the establishment of a paramilitary organization in the Slovak state. On August 19, 1944 Karmas sent a summary report to Heinrich Himmler in which he stated that the situation in Slovakia was becoming critical, not only because of frequent partisan activities but also because of the division and weakness of the Slovak forces. Karmasin also informed Himmler that the Germans in Slovakia had begun to set up the Heimatschutz (HS), an armed organization under the command of  Ferdinand Klug, head of the Freiwillige Schutzstaffel (FS), with the agreement of the German Embassy.
The main task of Heimatschutz was to protect the German minority in Slovakia against possible partisan attacks, so they started arming their members. Karmasin's plan failed however because the Slovak national uprising exploded earlier than expected on August 29, 1944, and in some cases the weapons intended for arming the Heimatschutz members were seized by the partisans. At the beginning of September 1944, the training of members of the HS armed organization began, involving the 8,000 male Germans in Slovakia. At the time of the uprising, Heimatschutz units were under the command of SS-Obergruppenführer Gottlob Berger. Following the outbreak of the uprising, armed units of the HS were strengthened and in many cases committed crimes against the Slovak civilian population. There were campaigns against the partisans hiding in the mountains and in the forests. After the collapse of the Slovak national uprising, in November 1944, the Heimatschutz, together with SS units and the Hlinka Guard, embarked on a campaign of terror.
In March 1945, the Heimatschutz armed forces were reorganized, and the SS-Heimatschutz "Slowakei" unit was set up under SS-Obersturmbannführer Hans Thumser. The commander of the SS-Heimatschutz "Slowakei" was Colonel Rudolf Pilfousek, formerly an officer of the Czechoslovak Army, who had later participated in the campaign against the Soviet Union as an officer of the Slovakian army and joined the SS in 1944 as SS-Standartenführer. Pilfousek was directly responsible to SS-Obergruppenführer Gottlob Berger. The operations of SS-Heimatschutz "Slowakei" were not long-lived, its combat activity was not significant, and its members had a low level of combat morale.

This German World War II article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a specific German military unit is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Fox is the name of two superheroes that appear in periodicals published by MLJ Comics and later Dark Circle Comics.
The first Fox (Paul Patten) debuted in MLJ Comic's Blue Ribbon Comics  #4 (June 1940), in a story written by Joe Blair and drawn by Irwin Hasen.[1] He appeared in that title until the series ended with issue #22 (March 1942).
He later made a guest appearance in Mighty Crusaders #4 (April 1966), as part of a crowd scene featuring nearly every superhero published by MLJ (the story, somewhat ironically, was titled "Too Many Super Heroes!").[2] He returned in issue #5, where he forms a team called the Ultra-Men with heroes Captain Flag and the Web.  This was the sole appearance of that group.  Some of the Fox stories from this period were written and illustrated by Alex Toth.[3] The first Fox's final appearance was in Black Hood #3 (Oct. 1983).[4]
The second Fox debuted in Blue Ribbon Comics vol. 2, #6 (March 1984). The Fox appeared in several issues of Blue Ribbon during the mid-1980s.  He also appeared in issues 9 and 11-13 of Mighty Crusaders as a member of that superhero team.  His final appearance was in Mighty Crusaders vol. 2, #13 (Sept. 1985).
In October 2013, Archie Comics released The Fox under its Red Circle Comics imprint as a five issue mini-series which ended in March 2014.[5][6] The series was written by Dean Haspiel and Mark Waid, with art by Haspiel; backup Shield stories were by J.M. DeMatteis, Mike Cavallaro, and Terry Austin.[7] The mini-series was later collected into trade paperback in July 2014 under the name The Fox: Freak Magnet. 
The Fox returned in another five-issue series in April 2015 under the relaunched Dark Circle Comics imprint. Volume 2 had the same creative team from the mini-series.
The Fox will return in a one-shot titled Family Values which will be released in June 2022.[8]
The Fox is secretly Paul Patten, a young news reporter and photographer for The Daily Globe, and a former athlete at Penn State University.[9] He has a camera that attaches to his belt. His editor and girlfriend is named Ruth Ransom.[10]  Patton's main reason for becoming the Fox was to further his career. As a crimefighter, he is the first on the scene with his camera.[11] His first mission pitted himself against the hooded Night Riders, a stand-in for the Ku Klux Klan.[12]
Whenever dangerous situations arise, Patton quickly changes into his costume, which consists of a black, skin-tight body suit, complete with pointed ears and (in some adventures) a golden fox head logo on his chest. Ron Goulart says, "It took Hasen a couple of issues to realize a hero's costume is a fantasy thing that doesn't have wrinkles or baggy knees."[9]
Although the transformations from photographer to superhero are never illustrated (artists favored a simple panel with the caption "Paul Patton becomes the Fox!"), it is assumed that the costume is worn under Paul's street clothes.
The Fox has no superpowers, but is a highly trained athlete.
Paul Patton is revealed to have been the original Fox who later passed down the identity to his son, Paul Patton Jr.
The second Fox is Paul Patten Jr., the son of the original Fox who made his debut in Blue Ribbon Comics vol. 2, #6 (March 1984). His girlfriend is Delilah Monaco, who is secretly the She-Fox. Paul and Delilah are unaware that the other person has a secret identity.[13]
The second Fox wears a black full body stocking with a covered face and pointed fox "ears".
The second Fox has no superpowers, but is a skilled martial artist.
In the wake of the continuity altering "Final Crisis" company-wide crossover, DC Comics licensed rights to the Red Circle and Milestone Media heroes, choosing to bring them into DC Universe continuity. It was announced that in March 2010,[14] the Fox would appear in a back-up feature in the Shield comic book series, written by Brandon Jerwa and with art from Michael Avon Oeming.
Paul Patten Jr. is a film director from Seattle in this version.[15]
Paul Patton Jr. was raised as a child in the town of Beaver Kill where his father, Paul Patton, operated as the Fox.[16] Patton took up a career in photography and eventually got a job as a photographer in Impact City. His wife, Mae Patton, operates as the She-Fox while his son, Shinji Patton, follows in his father's footsteps as the Ghost Fox.[17][18]
Patton wears a black full body stocking with a yellow fox head emblem on his chest with a covered face and pointed fox "ears" as his costume.
The 2018 New Holland Canadian Junior Curling Championships was held from January 13 to 21 at the Aréna Grand-Mère and the Centre municipal de curling de Shawinigan in Shawinigan, Québec. The winners represented Canada at the 2018 World Junior Curling Championships in Aberdeen, Scotland.[1]
Final round-robin standings
Final round-robin standings
Saturday, January 20, 18:00
Sunday, January 21, 18:00
Final round-robin standings
Final round-robin standings
Saturday, January 20, 13:00
Sunday, January 21, 13:00
The Ontario U21 Provincial Championships were held December 27–30, 2017 at the Annandale Golf & Curling Club in Ajax.
Results:[2]
The 2021 WTA Poland Open (also known as the BNP Paribas Poland Open for sponsorship purposes) was a women's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts. It was the first edition of the WTA Poland Open, and part of the WTA 250 series of the 2021 WTA Tour. It was held at the Arka Tennis Club in Gdynia, Poland, from 19 July until 25 July 2021. Unseeded Maryna Zanevska won the singles title.[1]
The following players received wildcards into the main draw:
The following player received entry as a special exempt:
The following players received entry from the qualifying draw:
The following players received entry as lucky losers:
The following pairs received wildcards into the doubles main draw:
Mildred Jessie Berryman (September 22, 1901 – November 7, 1972), who went by "Berry"[7]: 66 [1] (also spelled "Barrie"),[8] was an early 20th century American pioneering researcher of lesbian and gay community in post-WWI Utah.[9] She was also a photographer, a mineral merchant, and a manufacturing business co-owner with her girlfriend of over three decades.
At the age of 15, Berryman came out as lesbian at Westminster college and announced that she wanted to do an academic study of lesbianism. The thesis request was refused and some parents pulled their daughters from the school, but she was not expelled. Traumatized by the scandal and wanting to escape the shame of her homosexuality, she ran away at 16 and entered a short-lived marriage with a man.[6]: 354  In 1928 (or 1929),[6]: 354  Berryman began writing her thesis The Psychological Phenomena of the Homosexual[3]: 223, 228  on 23 lesbian women and 9 gay men, whom she met through the Salt Lake City Bohemian Club.[10][3]: 73  Her research of lesbian and gay people from the perspective of a lesbian lay researcher was groundbreaking and argued that homosexuality was inborn, benign, and evident among many animal species.[11]: xi 
It is possible that she had begun her research around the time of WWI as a student at Westminster College in Salt Lake from 1916 to 1922.[3]: 69  Her study has been called the first lesbian community study in the US,[12][13][14] and she continued writing it until leaving it uncompleted by 1938[3]: 223  or 1939.[10] By her request, parts of her research were posthumously published[15] by her daughter- and son-in-law[7]: 67  in 1977.[4]: 897–898 [5] It appears that Berryman did not complete or publish her work due to discouragement from her advisor as well as a desire to protect her privacy and that of her siblings. Additionally, at the time of research, the study's positive depiction of people engaging in same-sex sexual behavior may have been enough to have it banned under US federal Comstock laws since a book containing positively depicted minor lesbian themes was nearly banned in New York in 1929.[16][4]: 897 
In the study, most lesbian women and gay men (many of whom had Mormon background)[12] reported experiencing erotic interest in others of the same sex since childhood,[3]: 120, 222  and exhibited self-identity and community identity[17] as sexual minorities.[3]: 222  It was during the 1920s when gay and lesbian subcultures were beginning to become more established in several larger US cities.[18] While most of the subjects feared discovery, a few were "out" about their homosexuality with their heterosexual friends.[3]: 223  The social and legal risks of discovery were high since any consensual same-sex sexual behavior likely fell under the 1921 Utah sodomy law which banned "sodomy or any other detestable and abominable crime against nature" that was committed "with either the sexual organs or the mouth," or the 1907 Utah law which punished "every lewd or dissolute person" with up to 90 days in jail.[19]
Berryman was born in 1901 as the third and last child born to parents Richard Berryman and Mildred Stokes. Her siblings were George (born 1896) and Richard Jr. (born 1898). Her father worked as a bartender in Salt Lake City from 1894 to the Prohibition Era of the 1920s, with 1913 on spent working at a bar called The Opera Bar which acted as an early gay bar attracting many homosexual clientele.[6]: 353   After her first failed opposite-sex marriage she had her first lesbian relationship with her violin teacher Mae Anderson from 1920 to 1921.[5] She joined the LDS church at the age of 19,[5] received a patriarchal blessing at the age of 21,[3]: 226–228  and later entered a relationship with a Mormon woman for over three decades,[20] though she left involvement with the Mormon community to join the Bountiful Community Church.[5] She worked at the LDS School of Music with her former girlfriend Mae Anderson in the mid-1920s and had another failed opposite-sex marriage.
In 1924, she fell in love with Edith Mary Chapman and lived in her house (that later became a boarding house for lesbians) until 1928. Around that time, Berryman became a photographer,[1] and, in 1936, had a relationship with "Z". In the 40s, she collected and sold minerals specimens from her house[8] and was involved in the Mineralogical Society of Utah[21][22] and the Women's Benefit Association (W.B.A).[23]
In 1934, she met a Mormon mother Ruth Uckerman Dempsey at their manufacturing job at Hill Air Force Base, with whom she later had a 33-year romantic relationship.[5][3]: 226  Together, they ran a manufacturing business[24] and participated in the Bonneview Garden Club[25][26] until Berryman's death in 1972.[20][10] Barry had also served as president of the Utah Business and Professional
Women's Club.[1] Her stepdaughter Bonnie Uckerman Bullough from Ruth's first marriage[27] married Vern Bullough[3]: 226–227  and they both became renowned sexologists writing on homosexuality.[28][29][30]
Bestumkilen is a bay in Lysakerfjorden in the inner Oslofjord area of Norway.
Located west of the Bygdøy peninsula and east of Vækerø, it is bordered by the islet Killingen in the southwest and the mouth of the river Hoffselva at Sjølyst in the northeast. It was formerly known, together with Frognerkilen, under the name Ladegaardsfjordene.[1] This stems from older times, when Bygdøy was an island, named Ladegaardsøen. Bygdøy later became a peninsula due to post-glacial rebound, separating Bestumkilen from Frognerkilen.[2] Propositions to reconnect Bestumkilen and Frognerkilen through a canal were made in 1928 and 1937, but not carried out.[3]
The rowing club Bestumkilen RK and the canoeing club Oslo KK are based in Bestumkilen. There is also a harbor for leisure boats.
59°55′0″N 10°40′1″E﻿ / ﻿59.91667°N 10.66694°E﻿ / 59.91667; 10.66694
This Oslo location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Morse potential, named after physicist Philip M. Morse, is a convenient 
interatomic interaction model for the potential energy of a diatomic molecule. It is a better approximation for the vibrational structure of the molecule than the quantum harmonic oscillator because it explicitly includes the effects of bond breaking, such as the existence of unbound states. It also accounts for the anharmonicity of real bonds and the non-zero transition probability for overtone and combination bands. The Morse potential can also be used to model other interactions such as the interaction between an atom and a surface. Due to its simplicity (only three fitting parameters), it is not used in modern spectroscopy. However, its mathematical form inspired the MLR (Morse/Long-range) potential, which is the most popular potential energy function used for fitting spectroscopic data.
The Morse potential energy function is of the form
Here 



r


{\displaystyle r}

 is the distance between the atoms, 




r

e




{\displaystyle r_{e}}

 is the equilibrium bond distance, 




D

e




{\displaystyle D_{e}}

 is the well depth (defined relative to the dissociated atoms), and 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 controls the 'width' of the potential (the smaller 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 is, the larger the well). The dissociation energy of the bond can be calculated by subtracting the zero point energy 




E

0




{\displaystyle E_{0}}

 from the depth of the well. The force constant (stiffness) of the bond can be found by Taylor expansion of 




V
′

(
r
)


{\displaystyle V'(r)}

 around 



r
=

r

e




{\displaystyle r=r_{e}}

 to the second derivative of the potential energy function, from which it can be shown that the parameter, 



a


{\displaystyle a}

, is
where 




k

e




{\displaystyle k_{e}}

 is the force constant at the minimum of the well.
Since the zero of potential energy is arbitrary, the equation for the Morse potential can be rewritten any number of ways by adding or subtracting a constant value. When it is used to model the atom-surface interaction, the energy zero can be redefined so that the Morse potential becomes
which is usually written as
where 



r


{\displaystyle r}

 is now the coordinate perpendicular to the surface. This form approaches zero at infinite 



r


{\displaystyle r}

 and equals 



−

D

e




{\displaystyle -D_{e}}

 at its minimum, i.e. 



r
=

r

e




{\displaystyle r=r_{e}}

. It clearly shows that the Morse potential is the combination of a short-range repulsion term (the former) and a long-range attractive term (the latter), analogous to the Lennard-Jones potential.
Like the quantum harmonic oscillator, the energies and eigenstates of the Morse potential can be found using operator methods.[1]
One approach involves applying the factorization method to the Hamiltonian.
To write the stationary states on the Morse potential, i.e. solutions 




Ψ

n


(
r
)


{\displaystyle \Psi _{n}(r)}

 and 




E

n




{\displaystyle E_{n}}

  of the following Schrödinger equation:
it is convenient to introduce the new variables:
Then, the Schrödinger equation takes the simple form:
Its eigenvalues (reduced by 




D

e




{\displaystyle D_{e}}

) and eigenstates can be written as:[2]
where
with 



⌊
x
⌋


{\displaystyle \lfloor x\rfloor }

 denoting the largest integer smaller than 



x


{\displaystyle x}

, and
where




z
=
2
λ

e

−

(

x
−

x

e



)




; 


N

n


=


[



n
!

(

2
λ
−
2
n
−
1

)

a


Γ
(
2
λ
−
n
)



]



1
2





{\displaystyle z=2\lambda e^{-\left(x-x_{e}\right)}{\text{;  }}N_{n}=\left[{\frac {n!\left(2\lambda -2n-1\right)a}{\Gamma (2\lambda -n)}}\right]^{\frac {1}{2}}}


(which satisfies the normalization condition




∫

d

r


Ψ

n


∗


(
r
)

Ψ

n


(
r
)
=
1


{\displaystyle \int \mathrm {d} r\,\Psi _{n}^{*}(r)\Psi _{n}(r)=1}


) and 




L

n


(
α
)


(
z
)


{\displaystyle L_{n}^{(\alpha )}(z)}

 is a generalized Laguerre polynomial:
There also exists the following analytical expression for matrix elements of the coordinate operator:[3]
which is valid for 



m
>
n


{\displaystyle m>n}

 and 



N
=
λ
−
1

/

2


{\displaystyle N=\lambda -1/2}

. The eigenenergies in the initial variables have the form:
where 



n


{\displaystyle n}

 is the vibrational quantum number and 




ν

0




{\displaystyle \nu _{0}}

 has units of frequency. The latter is mathematically related to the particle mass, 



m


{\displaystyle m}

, and the Morse constants via
Whereas the energy spacing between vibrational levels in the quantum harmonic oscillator is constant at 



h

ν

0




{\displaystyle h\nu _{0}}

, the energy between adjacent levels decreases with increasing 



v


{\displaystyle v}

 in the Morse oscillator. Mathematically, the spacing of Morse levels is
This trend matches the anharmonicity found in real molecules. However, this equation fails above some value of 




n

m




{\displaystyle n_{m}}

 where 



E
(

n

m


+
1
)
−
E
(

n

m


)


{\displaystyle E(n_{m}+1)-E(n_{m})}

 is calculated to be zero or negative. Specifically,
This failure is due to the finite number of bound levels in the Morse potential, and some maximum 




n

m




{\displaystyle n_{m}}

 that remains bound. For energies above 




n

m




{\displaystyle n_{m}}

, all the possible energy levels are allowed and the equation for 




E

n




{\displaystyle E_{n}}

 is no longer valid.
Below 




n

m




{\displaystyle n_{m}}

, 




E

n




{\displaystyle E_{n}}

 is a good approximation for the true vibrational structure in non-rotating diatomic molecules.  In fact, the real molecular spectra are generally fit to the form1
in which the constants 




ω

e




{\displaystyle \omega _{e}}

 and 




ω

e



χ

e




{\displaystyle \omega _{e}\chi _{e}}

 can be directly related to the parameters for the Morse potential.
As is clear from dimensional analysis, for historical reasons the last equation uses spectroscopic notation in which  




ω

e




{\displaystyle \omega _{e}}

 represents a wavenumber obeying  



E
=
h
c
ω


{\displaystyle E=hc\omega }

, and not an angular frequency given by 



E
=
ℏ
ω


{\displaystyle E=\hbar \omega }

.
An extension of the Morse potential that made the Morse form useful for modern (high-resolution) spectroscopy is the MLR (Morse/Long-range) potential.[4] The MLR potential is used as a standard for representing spectroscopic and/or virial data of diatomic molecules by a potential energy curve. It has been used on N2,[5] Ca2,[6] KLi,[7] MgH,[8][9][10] several electronic states of Li2,[4][11][12][13][9] Cs2,[14][15] Sr2,[16] ArXe,[9][17] LiCa,[18] LiNa,[19] Br2,[20] Mg2,[21] HF,[22][23] HCl,[22][23] HBr,[22][23] HI,[22][23] MgD,[8] Be2,[24] BeH,[25] and NaH.[26]  More sophisticated versions are used for polyatomic molecules.
Alphonso McAuley (born April 21, 1984) is an American actor and social media personality. McAuley played Cassius Sparks on Fox's comedy television series Breaking In[1] and played Hutch in ABC's The Middle.
McAuley was born in New Haven, Connecticut, and raised in Chino, California .[2] He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in communications and Afro-Ethnic studies from California State University, Fullerton.[citation needed]
He has one daughter with longtime girlfriend Denise Nicole.
McAuley played Bucky in the Fat Albert movie. He also played Orsten Artis in the 2006 film Glory Road, based on the true story of the Texas Western Miners, and Walt in the film Pride. He went on to co-star with Tatyana Ali in the sitcom Love That Girl!. He also voiced the rooster Drake in The Lion of Judah.[3] He is featured in the music video for "Miracle" by Matisyahu.[4] He also featured in the YouTube comedy series Merman King Mah-Doo, a story about an exiled merman king living on dry land, though this series appears to have currently been deleted or unavailable on the site.
McAuley was popular on the social media app Vine, amassing over one million followers as of 2014.[5]
Harriet Schneider French (1824 – September 5, 1906) was an American physician and temperance movement activist. She was one of Philadelphia's pioneer women in the medical profession,[1] and one of the earliest women in the United States to obtain a diploma as a physician. When she died in 1906, she was the oldest woman physician in the country.[2]
French was born in Philadelphia in 1824.[3] [2] She was a member of the Schneider family, a representative of whom was for several generations grand tyler at the Masonic Temple in Philadelphia, and well known to Allentown Masons.[4]
She received her early education in the public schools of her city.[5]
Sources vary regarding her medical school education. French's obituary in The Allentown Leader states that she was the second woman to receive the degree of M.D. from Hahnemann College.[6] Kirschmann (2004) offers a footnotes that French may have attended Hahnemann College (now known as Drexel University College of Medicine.[7] Drexel University College of Medicine indicates that French received her medical degree in 1864 but doesn't name the institution,[3] only that it was in Pennsylvania.[8] However, The Woman's Medical Journal (1907) states that French received her Medical Degree (M.D.) from Penn Medical University.[9]
French began her career as a public school teacher.[4]
After completing medical school, she first practiced Allopathic medicine, but changed to Homeopathy.[2]
French spoke about the relation of alcohol to medicine during the First Woman's National Temperance Convention. She served as president of the Women's Homeopathic Society of Pittsburgh, and for 50 years of the Philadelphia County branch of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU).[7] In 1871, she was admitted into the American Institute of Homeopathy.[3] In addition to her work against alcohol consumption, French called on the WCTU to fight the cigarette habit.[10]
Around 1900, while crossing a street in the vicinity of her home, she was knocked down by a bicycle and severely injured. A year later, heart trouble had aggravated her physical condition.[11] French died at her home in Philadelphia, from cerebral hemorrhage, September 5, 1906, aged 83.[9]
European Moroccans are Moroccans whose ancestry lies within the continent of Europe.
Prior to independence, Morocco was home to half a million Europeans,[2] and European Christians formed almost half the population of the city of Casablanca.[3] Since the kingdom's independence in 1955, the European population has decreased substantially.
At the beginning of the 20th century, 250,000 Spaniards lived in Morocco. Most left Morocco after its independence and their numbers were reduced to 13,000.[4][5] In 1950, Catholics in Spanish protectorate in Morocco and Tangier constitute 14.5% of the population, and the Spanish Morocco was home to 113,000 Catholic settlers.[6] Catholics in Spanish protectorate in Morocco and Tangier were mostly of Spanish descent, and to a lesser extent of Portuguese, French and Italian ancestry.[7]
During the French and Spanish protectorates, Morocco had significant populations of European Catholic settlers: on the eve of independence, an estimated 470,000 Catholics resided in Morocco.[1] Since independence in 1956, the European Catholic population has decreased substantially, and many Catholics left to France or Spain. Prior to independence, the European Catholic settlers had historic legacy and powerful presence.[1] Independence prompted a mass exodus of the European Catholic settlers; after series of events over 1959-1960 more than 75% of Catholic settlers left the country.[1]
This Morocco-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about an ethnic group in Africa is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A telluroxide is a type of organotellurium compound with the formula R2TeO.  These compounds are analogous to sulfoxides in some respects.  Reflecting the decreased tendency of Te to form multiple bonds, telluroxides exist both the monomer and the polymer, which are favored in solution and the solid state, respectively:[1]
Telluroxides are prepared from the telluroethers by halogenation followed by base hydrolysis:
Jack Denham (24 August 1924 – 14 December 2009)[1] was a leading Australian horse trainer and businessman.
A member of a Sydney training dynasty, Denham first rode as a jockey for his brother, and then took out his own training licence in 1948.
Denham's training career took off when he became a trainer for Stan Fox at Nebo Lodge, a position he held for 10 years, training over 1,000 winners. For six successive years, from 1971 to 1976, he was runner-up in the Sydney trainers’ premiership table. He was to win the premiership later in 1990–91 and 1992–93.
From 1980 onwards Denham was closely associated with owners Geoff and Beryl White, for whom he won a Golden Slipper with Marscay, an Epsom Handicap, Yalumba Stakes and other group races with Filante, and an Australian Guineas and AJC Oaks with Triscay. His greatest triumphs came in 1997 and 1998 when the Denham trained Might and Power took out the Melbourne Cup, Caulfield Cup and Cox Plate.[2]
On 14 December 2009, Jack Denham died at the age of 85 after a long illness.
This biographical article related to Australian equestrianism is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A bilge keel is a nautical device used to reduce a ship's tendency to roll. Bilge keels are employed in pairs (one for each side of the ship).[1] A ship may have more than one bilge keel per side, but this is rare. Bilge keels increase hydrodynamic resistance, making the ship roll less.[2] Bilge keels are passive stability systems.
On commercial shipping the bilge keel is in the form of a strake, or small keel or blister, running along much of the length of the hull. They are typically fitted one on each side, low down on the side of the hull, so as not to increase the draft of the vessel. In battleships they were often quite large and used as part of the torpedo protection system.
A bilge keel is often in a "V" shape, welded along the length of the ship at the turn of the bilge. Although not as effective as stabilizing fins, bilge keels have a major advantage in their low impact on internal ship arrangements. Unlike fins, bilge keels do not have any components inside the hull that would adversely affect cargo or mission spaces. Like fins, bilge keels have the disadvantage of increasing the hydrodynamic resistance of the vessel, thus hindering forward motion.
When designing a bilge keel there are important decisions to consider. To minimize hydrodynamic drag the bilge keel should be placed in way of a flowline where it does not oppose crossflow. For such a usage the ends of the bilge keel should be tapered and properly faired into the hull. Also, a bilge keel should not protrude from the hull so far that the device could be damaged when the vessel is alongside a pier, even with a few degrees of adverse heel. Bilge keels on commercial vessels should not protrude below the baseline either, where they could be damaged or fouled by grounding.  Note that small bilge keels are often fitted to smaller fishing boats precisely to protect the hull on drying moorings and to help keep the vessel upright.
A bilge keel is constructed from flat plate so as to present a sharp obstruction to roll motion. The roll damping provided by a bilge keel is more than that of a barehull ship, but falls short of other roll damping devices. Nevertheless, it is considered prudent naval architecture to install a bilge keel whenever possible as it is the only device effective in the severest of seas. Bilge keels can also be used in conjunction with other roll damping devices.[citation needed][citation needed]
Bilge keels are often fitted to smaller sailing yachts. Bilge keels minimise the draft of the vessel compared to a single fin keel thus enabling it to negotiate shallower water. Bilge keels on sailing yachts extend below the lowest point of the hull extending slightly outwards. Such an arrangement also enables the vessel to stand upright on firm sand or mud at drying moorings without the need for detachable legs, and is simpler than retractable fin keels while giving the hull greater protection. Bilge keels are not as effective as central fin keels in preventing leeway (sideways slippage) caused by crosswinds but are preferred by many small craft owners due to their other advantages.
Henri Horace Meyer (17 May 1801 – 2 February 1870) was a 19th-century French dramatist and novelist.
Managing director of the Théâtre de la Gaîté from 1839 to 1847, his plays were presented on the most important Parisian stages of his time including the Théâtre du Gymnase-Dramatique, the Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique, and the  Théâtre de la Gaîté.
In 1839, he witnessed the attack on 12 and 13 May. [1]
Kailash Colony  is a Delhi Metro station in Delhi. It is located between Moolchand and Nehru Place stations on the Violet Line. The station was opened with the first section of the Line on 3 October 2010, in time for the Commonwealth Games opening ceremony on the same day.[1]
List of available ATM at Kailash Colony metro station are
[2]

This article related to the Delhi Metro is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a railway station in the Indian union territory of Delhi is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Alavanyo Kpeme is a village in the Hohoe District of the Volta Region of Ghana.[1]

This Volta Region location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Audit working papers are the documents which record during the course of audit evidence obtained during financial statements auditing, internal management auditing, information systems auditing, and investigations. Audit working papers are used to support the audit work done in order to provide the assurance that the audit was performed in accordance with the relevant auditing standards. They show the audit was:
The Institute of Internal Auditors, a global professional audit standards body, has issued practice advisory 2330-1 stating the goals of audit working papers are to:[1]
The audit working paper are divided into two parts: The first group consists of the current file and second group contains the permanent file. 
Audit working papers are the property of the auditor. In order to keep professional ethic, it cannot reveal to third parties without client consent unless limited specified situations mentioned in ISA 230 Documentation and required by law, the examples are court order, for public interest and so on.
The forms of documentation may be flowchart, manual, narrative note, checklist, or questionnaire.
Features of Audit documentation are defined by related audit standards ie. IFRS,[2] USGAAP.[3] Following features might be considered as minimum:
Hayley Arceneaux (born December 4, 1991) is a St. Jude Children's Research Hospital physician assistant and commercial astronaut. She joined billionaire Jared Isaacman on SpaceX's first private spaceflight Inspiration4, which launched on September 16, 2021, 00:02:56 UTC, and successfully water-landed local-time on Saturday, September 18.[4] Arceneaux became the first human in space with a prosthetic leg bone after surviving bone cancer.[5] At age 29, Arceneaux was the youngest American to travel to space, surpassed a few months later by 23 year old Cameron Bess aboard Blue Origin NS-19.[6] Arceneaux remains the youngest American to have orbited the Earth.
Arceneaux was raised in St. Francisville, Louisiana. 
Her father, Howard Stanford Arceneaux, died July 5, 2018, at the age of 60 years old.[7] Her brother, Hayden, and sister-in-law, Liz Suttles, are aerospace engineers.[3]
When she was 10 years old,[8] her left knee began to ache. Her doctor thought it was just a sprain, but a few months later, tests revealed she had osteosarcoma, a type of bone cancer. Her family turned to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital for her treatment and care, which included around a dozen rounds of chemotherapy, a limb-preservation surgery with knee replacement and placement of a titanium rod in her left thigh bone along with associated physical therapy.[1] The experience inspired her to want to work with other cancer patients at St. Jude, which she does as a physician assistant working with leukemia and lymphoma patients.[8]
Arceneaux graduated from St. Joseph's Academy in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and obtained an undergraduate degree in Spanish in 2014. She obtained her Physician Assistant (PA) degree in 2016 from LSU Health in Shreveport, Louisiana.[8][9]
Arceneaux was described as the chief medical officer onboard Inspiration4, a private spaceflight funded by billionaire Jared Isaacman. She has said she thinks she will be the first Cajun in space.[2] She is the first person to launch with a prosthesis.[1] As part of the training, she climbed Mount Rainier in Washington with the rest of the Inspiration4 crew.[10]
Arceneaux received the call sign "Nova" during training.[11]
Arceneaux is featured on the cover of a Time magazine double issue with the crew of Inspiration4 in August 2021.[12]
She is a member of the Association of Space Explorers.[13]
Coptops lichenea is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Francis Polkinghorne Pascoe in 1865. It is known from Myanmar, Laos, Malaysia, and Nepal.[1]

This Mesosini article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The 45th Launch Group is a United States Air Force unit.  It is assigned to the 45th Space Wing, stationed at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida.
The 45th Launch Group participates in receipt, inspection, processing, test, and launch of all flight hardware to ensure the successful launch of satellites to support national and combatant commander requirements. The group contributes to mission success through seamless partnership with launch/satellite program offices.
In order to handle space operations more effectively, senior officials at Air Force Space Command, Air Force Materiel Command, Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), 14th Air Force, the 30th Space Wing, and the 45th Space Wing agreed to fine tune the new standard wing organization in 2003. Following approval at the highest levels of the Air Force, an organizational transformation was implemented on 1 December 2003, discontinuing SMC Detachment 8 and activating the 45th Launch Group which also included elements of the 45th Operations Group. As a result of the transformation, the 45th Launch Group was constituted and assigned to Air Force Space Command with further assignment to the 45th Space Wing.  The 5th Space Launch Squadron (inactivated 29 June 1998) was reactivated at Cape Canaveral on 1 December 2003. The 5th was placed under the 45th Launch Group, and the squadron was given responsibility for Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) operations formerly held by Detachment 8, along with the 1st Space Launch Squadron performing Delta II operations and the 3rd Space Launch Squadron performing Titan IV and Atlas II/III operations.
The final Atlas IIIB/Centaur and Titan IVB missions were launched from Cape Canaveral in February and April 2005 respectively. Consequently, the 3rd Space Squadron—which had been responsible for managing both launch programs—was inactivated effective 30 June 2005. On the same date, the 45th Launch Support Squadron was activated and placed under the 45th Launch Group. The ceremony for both organizational changes was held at the Cape on the morning of 6 July 2005.
The 1st SLS was inactivated on 18 August 2009, following the final USAF launch of a Delta II which had occurred the previous day.
 This article incorporates public domain material from the Air Force Historical Research Agency
Elprice was an electronics retailer in Norway, which is now bankrupt.
Elprice was founded in 2000, and had its headquarters in Bergen.[2] In 2008 it was merged with the Internet store Deal, as Deal's owner Holta Invest bought 98% of the shares.[3] As of 2010, Elprice had 24 stores in Norway, in addition to an Internet store, Elprice.no.[1]

This Norwegian corporation or company article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Photoplagios Sparks, Dunlap & Smith, 2005
Equulites is a genus of ponyfishes native to the Indian Ocean and the western Pacific Ocean.[3] Analysis of mitochondrial DNA published in 2017 has suggested that Equulites elongates is in fact a species group made up of three species  Equulites aethopos, Equulites elongates and Equulites popei.[4]
There are currently 10 recognized species in this genus:[3][5]

This Perciformes article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Alan Mills (born 1979) is a Guatemalan poet and writer. His poetry has been included in numerous anthologies of contemporary Spanish poetry and he has also been translated into multiple languages. In 2007, he published the micro-novel Síncopes. Most recently, he has published a book in English about hacker culture titled Hacking Coyote. In 2017, he was named as one of the Bogota39, a list of the most promising young writers in Latin America.
He has lived in Berlin since 2012, where he is working on a doctoral thesis about indigenista science fiction.[1]


This article about a Guatemalan poet is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Diocese of Natchez (Latin: Dioecesis Natchesium) was a Latin Church diocese of the Catholic Church; it was the predecessor of the Diocese of Jackson.  It served all of Mississippi until the state was split into two dioceses, Jackson and Biloxi.
The former cathedral for the Diocese of Natchez in Natchez, Mississippi is now a minor basilica. The diocese was under the patronage of Our Lady of Sorrows.[1]
The first Catholic priests in present-day Mississippi were French Jesuit and Capuchin missionaries who accompanied the La Salle, Marquette, and d'Iberville expeditions in the 17th and 18th centuries. The French established Fort Rosalie near Natchez in 1716 and established the first parish in Mississippi.[2]
By 1779, the Spanish were in charge in Florida. In 1787, three priests, McKenna, White, and Savage, arrived in Natchez from Spain and erected three missions in the vicinity. Spanish rule began in the area of Natchez in 1779 and in 1788, a Spanish wood-frame church dedicated to the Holy Savior (San Salvador) was built in the center of the city. Two of these missions disappeared after the Spanish Empire ceded the area to the new United States in 1821.[3]San Salvador burned down in 1832.[2]
The Mississippi Territory was originally under the jurisdiction of the Diocese of Louisiana and the Two Floridas.  In 1826, Pope Leo XII moved the new state of Mississippi into the Vicariate Apostolic of Mississippi. The pope named Bishop Louis-Guillaume-Valentin DuBourg as the vicar apostolic.
Pope Leo XIII converted the vicariate into the Diocese of Natchez on July 28, 1837, its territory covering all of Mississippi. The pope that same year appointed Thomas Heyden of the Diocese of Pittsburgh as the first bishop of the new diocese, but Heyden declined the post.  Leo XIII then named Bishop Antoine Blanc of the Diocese of New Orleans to serve as a temporary administrator.[2]
Three years later, in 1840, Leo XIII appointed John Chanche, president of St. Mary's College in Baltimore, as bishop of Natchez. Chanche sailed to New Orleans and then traveled by steamboat to Natchez, arriving in May 1841. On his arrival, he met the only priest in the new diocese, Brogard, there on a temporary assignment. Chanche began to contact Catholics in Mississippi and organize the new diocese. Three of his nieces opened the first Catholic school in Mississippi.[2]
The Cathedral of the Sorrowful Heart of Mary was designed by Baltimore architect Robert Cary Long Jr.,[4] an alumnus of St. Mary's. Two years earlier, Long had designed for Chanche a steeple for the college's chapel. The cornerstone was laid in 1842. Chanche died in 1852, presumably of cholera,[5] in Frederick, Maryland, while returning from the First Plenary Council of Baltimore. The diocese had by that time, 11 priests, 11 churches erected, and 13 attendant missions.[6]
Bishop James Van de Velde was named as the second bishop of Natchez by Pope Pius IX in 1853.  However, after only 23 months in office, Van de Velde died in 1855 of yellow fever.[7] The next bishop of Natchez was Bishop William Elder, appointed by Pius IX in 1857.  At the time he arrived in Natchez, the diocese had eleven missions (churches), nine priests and 10,000 Catholics.[8][9]
After the occupation of Natchez in 1864 by the Union Army during the American Civil War, Elder refused an order from the military government to compel his parishioners to pray for the US president. Elder was then arrested, tried, convicted, and jailed briefly in Vidalia, Louisiana. Elder wrote an appeal from prison to President Abraham Lincoln. Elder explained that his refusal was not based on politics, but on the authority of the Catholic church to regulate its church services. The Federal Government ordered Elder's release from prison on August 12, 1864.[10]
In 1878, a yellow fever epidemic broke out in Natchez. Ministering to the sick, Elder caught the disease. He survived but lost six diocesan priests.[9] When he left the diocese, there were 41 churches, 25 priests, six religious houses for men, five convents, 13 parish schools and 12,500 Catholics.  Elder was named coadjutor archbishop for the Archdiocese of Cincinnati in 1880 by Pope Leo XIII.[11]
In 1881, Francis Janssens from the Diocese of Richmond was appointed the fourth bishop of the Diocese of Natchez by Leo XIII.[12]  During his tenure, Janssens completed construction on the Cathedral of St. Peter the Apostle in Jackson, Mississippi, which had commenced forty years earlier.[13] The pope named him archbishop of the Archdiocese of New Orleans in 1888.  St. Joseph School was founded in Greenville in 1888.[14]
In 1889, Leo III appointed Thomas Heslin of the Archdiocese of St. Louis as the new bishop of Natchez.[15] St. Mary's Church in Vicksburg, serving the African-American community, was founded in 1906, with half of the funding coming from Sister Katherine Drexel.[16]
When Heslin died in 1911, Pope Pius X named John Gunn as bishop of Natchez. Upon Gunn's arrival, the diocese contained 75 churches, 46 priests, and 17,000 Catholics.[17] He then began extensive pastoral visits to all the parishes and missions throughout the diocese, which covered nearly 47,000 square miles.[18] Gunn received significant assistance from the Catholic Church Extension Society, and incorporated the diocese in 1918.[18] He became known as the "Chapel Builder," and by the time of his death, there were 149 churches and over 31,000 Catholics in the diocese.[17]
After Gunn died in 1924, Pope Pius XI appointed Richard Gerow of the Diocese of Mobile as the next bishop of Natchez. During his 43-year tenure, Gerow oversaw an extensive renovation of St. Mary's Cathedral, held biannual clerical conferences, and worked to established Confraternity of Christian Doctrine programs in every parish of the diocese.[19] He moved the episcopal see of the diocese to Jackson in 1948.[19] On December 18, 1956, the Vatican renamed the Diocese of Natchez to the Diocese of Natchez-Jackson.[9]
In 1963, Gerow condemned the assassination of the American Civil Rights Movement activist Medgar Evers in Mississippi, saying, "We need frankly to admit that the guilt for the murder and the other instances of violence in our community tragically must be shared by all of us."[20] The following year, he ordered Catholic elementary schools in the diocese to admit students to the first grade "without regard to race."[21] In 1965, Gerow ordered the desegregation of all grades in Catholic schools to "bring our practice into full conformity with the teachings of Christ."[22] Gerow retired in 1967.
The next bishop of Natchez-Jackson was Auxiliary Bishop Joseph Brunini, appointed by Pope Paul VI in 1967. He was the first native Mississippian to serve in that post.[23] During his tenure, Brunini was an outspoken advocate of the Civil Rights Movement; he once declared, "We as religious leaders can't blame the politicians if we don't do our job first."[24] He co-founded and served as the first president of the Mississippi Religious Leadership Conference.[23]
On March 1, 1977, Paul VI split the Diocese of Natchez-Jackson into the Diocese of Jackson and the Diocese of Biloxi. The pope designated the Diocese of Natchez as a titular see.
Prior to the erection of the Diocese of Natchez, Louis DuBourg served as the Vicar Apostolic of Mississippi from 1825 to 1826.
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Natchez". Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.
Headline is a 1944 British thriller film directed by John Harlow and starring David Farrar, Anne Crawford, William Hartnell and John Stuart.[1] It was based on the 1933 novel Reporter! by Ken Attiwill.[2] Its plot involves a crime reporter who searches for a mystery woman who has witnessed a murder. It was shot at the Riverside Studios in Hammersmith. The film's sets were designed by the art director James Carter.

This article related to a British film of the 1940s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a 1940s thriller film is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Iisalmi railway station is located in Iisalmi, Finland. The station is operated by VR.
In December 2006 the electrification of the railway between Iisalmi and Oulu was completed.[1]
63°33′37″N 027°12′01″E﻿ / ﻿63.56028°N 27.20028°E﻿ / 63.56028; 27.20028

This article about a Finnish railway station is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Hans Gerle (c. 1500, Nuremberg - 1570, Nuremberg) was a German lutenist and arranger of the Renaissance. Little concrete information is available regarding Gerle's life. His father was probably Conrad Gerle (died 1521), one of the city's better-known lute makers. Gerle likely spent his entire life in Nuremberg.
Gerle published three volumes of lute music through Hieronymus Formschneider, a Nuremberg publisher. The first two were issued in 1532-33, and the last in 1552; this third volume refers to Gerle as "the elder" on the title page, so it is presumed that Gerle had either a son or another relative with the same name. The first publication contains an introduction to the performance of lute, viola da gamba (Grossgeigen), and rebec (Kleingeigen), as well as an explanation of musical notation, and is a significant source of information on performance practice. The book is primarily made up of intabulations of German composers such as Ludwig Senfl, Johann Walter, Heinrich Isaac, Thomas Stoltzer, and Paul Hofhaimer.
His second volume, for solo lute, features works from many older composers, such as Hayne van Ghizeghem, Josquin des Prez, Isaac, and Jacob Obrecht, as well as popular contemporaries such as Claudin de Sermisy, Adrian Willaert, Jean Mouton, and Senfl. The third volume was a transcription into German tablature of pieces previously only available in Italian tablature, including works of Giovanni Maria da Crema, Domenico Bianchini, Simon Gintzler, Francesco Canova da Milano, Pietro Paolo Borrono, and Alberto da Ripa.
Democracy and Security is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering national security and democracy published by Routledge. Founded in 2005, editors Leonard Weinberg and Gabriel Ben Dor wrote that the journal covers issues about democracies responding to threats.[1]

This article about a journal on politics or political science is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.See tips for writing articles about academic journals. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.
Dan Bakkedahl (born November 18, 1969[1]) is an American actor and improvisational comedian. He is best known for starring as Tim Hughes on the CBS sitcom Life in Pieces, as Congressman Roger Furlong on the HBO series Veep, and as Steve Nugent in the FX comedy series Legit. From 2005 to 2007, he was a correspondent for three seasons on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart. He additionally has recurring roles on the ABC sitcom The Goldbergs, the HBO Max comedy series Made for Love, and the Netflix comedy Space Force.
Bakkedahl grew up in Stuart, Florida. He is a 1988 graduate of Martin County High School. He is of part Norwegian descent.[2] Bakkedahl attended St. Cloud State University in Minnesota, before completing his studies at Florida State University, where he was a member of the Chi Phi fraternity.
After college, Bakkedahl toured for a year with the Repertory Theater of America. After moving to Chicago, he made a name for himself at the Improv Olympic performing in the influential two-man improv show ZUMPF with his teacher Miles Stroth. Dan went on to perform at the Second City mainstage, eventually writing Doors Open on the Right, Second City’s 90th revue. In Chicago, he is often noted for having left the Second City mainstage due to artistic differences.[3]
Bakkedahl continues to perform regularly at comedy venues such as the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre, Magnet Theater, Second City and Improv Comedy Lab in Los Angeles. He is also a member of the advisory council of the California Shakespeare Theater.[4]
Bakkedahl's first major television work was on Comedy Central's The Daily Show where he served as a correspondent from 2005 to 2007. After leaving The Daily Show in 2007, he has since moved to Los Angeles and went on to have supporting roles in the films such as Observe and Report, The Heat, and This Is 40. He also appeared in the Snake 'N Bacon animated special on Adult Swim, which aired on May 10, 2009. In early 2010, he co-starred in the comedy pilot Our Show on NBC.
From 2010 through 2011, Bakkedahl appeared in a series of commercials for T-Mobile cellular phones, where he plays a human likeness of AT&T's 3G network.[5]
Bakkedahl has made guest appearances on shows such as 30 Rock, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Newsreaders, and The United States of Tara, as well as appearing in recurring roles as "Murray the A/C Repairman" in season three of Community and as Congressman Furlong on Veep. In 2015, he began recurring roles The Goldbergs as science teacher Mr. Woodburn and on The Mindy Project as Dr. Adrian Bergdahl.
Bakkedahl starred alongside Jim Jeffries and DJ Qualls in the FX comedy series Legit, which ran for two seasons on FX and FXX. Aftwards, he next starred as Tim Hughes on the CBS sitcom Life in Pieces, which began airing in 2015 and concluded after four seasons in 2019.
Bakkedahl co-stars in the HBO Max comedy series Made for Love, which premiered on April 1, 2021.
The Jilala (جيلالة), or Tariqa Jilalia (طريقة جيلاﻟﻴـة) is an ecstatic and music-therapeutic tariqa of Morocco of Sufi origin. It should not be confused with the folk revival group Jil Jilala.
The Jilala are the oldest Moroccan Muslim confraternity, named after the Sufi master Abdul Qadir Gilani, in Morocco called Moulay Abdelkader Jilali or Boualam Jilali (Bū 'alam Jilali).[1]
The rituals of Jilala ranging the dhikr and invocation of marabouts and jinns, just like the other tranche confraternity of Morocco (Gnawa, Hmadsha and Aissawa).
The Jilala operate in small groups, usually less than five people. The musical instruments they use are the gasba flute (bamboo red flute) and bendir, those using bendir generally are also those who make the invocations and chants. When it comes to songs in honor of a type of spirits called buwwāb (black African jinn, traditionally associated to the Gnawa), some Jilala also use the krakebs, the typical large iron castanets of the Gnawa.[2]
Originally only a voice of sacred Moroccan sufism, and in their early repertoire, besides the invocation of saints and the jinn and the songs of praise of Allah, have a gripe songs of exile and death,[1] and for this reason the musical style of this confraternity is melancholic. The Jilala Jilala music is all about throb and rasp. Throb - the acceleration and deceleration within a song, the breathy organic timbre of the gasba flutes, the in-and-out-of-phase frequencies of the paired flutes. Rasp - flutes, voices, bendirs, all buzzy. The bendir patterns inhabit the 2/4 and 6/8 universes common across Morocco, but I find the drum stroke patterns particularly loopy and provocative.[3]They are called, behind monetary compensation, upon to exorcise evil spirits, to purify the heart and for curing to heal the sick (in particularly useful in curing cases of hysteria and depression), through the invocation of saints and spirits.
In a ritual Jilala the lila is performed. The therapy or exorcism must be repeated every year in the same period. It is thought that if the therapy is not renewed, the sick or possessed the same symptoms recur at the approach of the date corresponding to the first crisis. In the time that elapses between two lila, however, the symptoms disappear, or, at least, are kept under control.
The participants in the rituals, especially women,[4] falling into a trance (hal), dancing wildly (jadba or jedba) to the rhythm of flutes and bendir. I fell into a trance can have different behavior, such as laughter, screams, cries. The Jilala have spread throughout Morocco (excluding Western Sahara), especially in the north and in the region of the city of Casablanca.[3]
There are similarities between the rituals of Jilala and other therapeutic-Moroccan musical groups with the phenomenon of Italian tarantism, for example the release and wild dance, the fact that the therapy has to be renewed each year, the fact that healers are musicians, and it gives a therapeutic value to the colors, the music and dance.
The American rock band Trapt has released eight studio albums, one live album, one compilation album, three extended plays and thirteen singles. The band is also featured on the video album Crüe Fest. Trapt was formed in Los Gatos, California in August 1997,
[1]
[2]
[3] and is currently composed of lead singer Chris Taylor Brown, lead guitarist Shawn Sonnenschein, drummer Mitch Moore and  bass guitarist Pete Charell.[4]
[90]
AIS Arena is a multi-purpose arena in Canberra, Australia. Its capacity is 5,200 and it was built in 1980. The arena was opened by the Prime Minister of Australia, Malcolm Fraser, on 26 January 1981 and was originally named the National Indoor Sports Centre and was the inaugural home of the Australian Institute of Sport.
The arena was designed by Philip Cox & Partners and the main contractor was John Holland Group. Architectural features include a 1200 tonne suspended concrete panel roof supported by 12 steel masts and 36 mainstay cables. The roof has a span of 100.4 metres. The stadium is partly set into the ground to reduce its scale and to establish a visual connection between the landscape and the mast and cable structure of the roof.[3]
The arena has been home to the Canberra Cannons of the National Basketball League (NBL) and the Canberra Capitals and Australian Institute of Sport (AIS) of the Women's National Basketball League (WNBL). While the Cannons were playing at the arena it was known as "The Palace". The arena has hosted Australian Boomers and Australian Opals international basketball games, as well as the Australian Netball Diamonds. The arena has also hosted the Canberra Roller Derby League and many concerts.
The arena was shut down in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and its poor fire safety. It was later used as a mass vaccination clinic.[4] The arena received $15 million worth of repair work and is set to re-open in 2024.[5]
William Edward Tulip (3 May 1933 – December 2013) was an English former professional footballer who played in the Football League as a forward for Darlington between 1956 & 1958 before retiring due to injury.[1]

This biographical article related to association football in England, about a forward born in the 1930s, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
William Willets Cocks (July 24, 1861 – May 24, 1932) was an American politician who served three terms as from New York from 1905 to 1911.
Born in Old Westbury, Long Island, he attended private schools and Swarthmore College. He engaged in agricultural pursuits.
He was elected Commissioner of Highways of the Town of North Hempstead in 1894, and was re-elected in 1896 and again in 1898. He was a member of the New York State Senate (2nd D.) in 1901 and 1902; a member of the New York State Assembly (Queens and Nassau Co.) in 1904; and a delegate to the 1908 Republican National Convention.
Cocks was elected as a Republican to the 59th, 60th and 61st United States Congresses, holding office from March 4, 1905, to March 3, 1911.[1]
William Cocks was a member of the board of managers of Swarthmore College and was president of the Friends Academy in Locust Valley. He was vice president of the Roslyn Savings Bank and was a director of the Bank of Westbury and the Bank of Hicksville. Cocks was President of the Village of Old Westbury from its incorporation in 1924 until his death there in 1932; interment was in Friends Cemetery, Westbury.
His son, William Burling "Burley" Cocks (1915–1998) was a U.S. Hall of Fame trainer of Thoroughbred racehorses.[2] [3]
Congressman Frederick Cocks Hicks was a brother to William W. Cocks.
Sunday is a 2023 Singaporean romantic drama film written, filmed and directed by Sean Ng. Centering on two foreign workers who fall in love while working in Singapore, the film stars Filipino actress Rhen Escaño and Vietnamese actor Ho Thanh Trung. The film also features Singaporean actors Adrian Pang and Michelle Saram in supporting roles.[1][2] The film had its world premiere at the Singapore International Film Festival on 6 December 2023.
A lensing ceremony was held on 16 August 2021.[3]
The directorial feature debut of Sean Ng, Sunday was developed through TorinoFilmLab and is supported by the Singapore Film Commission. Former Raintree Pictures chief Daniel Yun serves as associate producer, while Chang Long Jong, Raymond Quek, Melvin Ang, Ng Say Yong and Gary Goh serve as executive producers. Jonathan Choo, son of veteran actor Zhu Houren, serves as a co-writer on the film.[4]

This article related to a Singaporean film is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a romantic drama film is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Herbert Butterworth (September quarter 1902 – March quarter 1938) was an English professional footballer who played as a left half. He played nine matches in the Football League for Nelson and also assisted several non-league clubs. In 1929, he emigrated to Canada, but returned to England several years later.
Herbert Butterworth was born in 1902 in the village of Higham, Lancashire. During his early career as a footballer, he also worked as a weaver in various local factories. On 8 March 1929, he emigrated to Halifax, Nova Scotia on the liner Regina and later worked in Calgary for the Canadian Pacific Railway. Some time later, he returned to England and worked at the Trent Motors factory in Derby. Butterworth lived in Derby until his death in the early months of 1938, at the age of 35.
Butterworth started his career at Wolverhampton Wanderers but failed to break into the first team and joined his local club Higham in the Padiham & District Football League. In the 1922–23 season, he assisted the team to the league championship and in August 1923 he signed an amateur deal with local Football League Third Division North side Nelson. Butterworth initially played exclusively in the reserve team, but in January 1925 he signed a professional contract with the club. He subsequently made his league debut on 7 February 1925 in the 4–1 win against Tranmere Rovers at Seedhill. He kept his place in the team, playing in five consecutive league victories culminating in the 5–0 win over New Brighton on 7 March 1925, during which he was described by a local newspaper as "the best half-back on the field". His last appearance of the 1924–25 campaign came in the 1–2 defeat away at Lincoln City, after which he was replaced at left-half by new signing Ambrose Harris.
Butterworth returned to reserve team action for the start of the 1925–26 season, and helped the second string to the championship of the Lancashire Combination league and to the final of the Combination Cup. He made two first-team appearances for Nelson during the campaign, firstly deputising for Ernie Braidwood for the 4–1 victory over Coventry City on 13 February 1926. Butterworth played his last competitive match for the club in the 1–1 draw with New Brighton on 5 April 1926, filling in for the unavailable Harris. He left Nelson in the summer of 1926, having made a total of nine Football League appearances.
After being released by Nelson, Butterworth signed for Lancashire Combination side Colne Town in August 1926. He joined Great Harwood on a free transfer in December of the same year but could not prevent the team finishing bottom of the league for the second consecutive season. A move to Wellington Town of the Birmingham & District League followed in August 1927, and the club finished as runners-up in the division at the end of the 1927–28 campaign. Butterworth returned to Colne Town for the 1928–29 season and remained there until his emigration in March 1929. While working for the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Trent Motors factory, he also played amateur football for the works teams.
For the Canadian ethnobiologist, see Nancy Turner.
Nancy Byrd Turner (July 29, 1880 – September 5, 1971) was an American poet, editor and lecturer. She was a recipient of the Golden Rose Award and the Virginia Writers' Club's poetry prize.
Nancy Byrd Turner was born in Boydton, Virginia, July 29, 1880. She was the eldest child of Rev. Byrd Thornton and Nancy Turner.
In 1898, she graduated from Hannah More Academy in Maryland and began work as a teacher. During this period her work appeared in several national magazines including the Saturday Evening Post and Scribner's.
In 1917, she moved to Boston to join the editorial staff of The Youth's Companion. By 1922 she was an editor for The Atlantic, The Independent, and Houghton Mifflin. She joined the MacDowell art colony in 1925 and remained there until 1944.
Her first book of poetry, A Riband on My Rein, was published in 1929. Over the course of her career she published 15 books, ranging from adult poetry to children's literature and lyrics. Her work appeared in England and in the United States in such magazines as Good Housekeeping, Harper's Magazine,[1] Ladies' Home Journal, and the New Yorker.
She retired to Ashland, Virginia, to become a lecturer and freelance writer.[2] She died September 5, 1971.
Anne Riley is an interdisciplinary artist of Slavey Dene (Fort Nelson First Nation) and German ancestry.[1] Born in Dallas, Texas, Riley currently lives and works in Vancouver, Canada.[2] Several of Riley's works derive from her identity as Indigiqueer,[3] a term coined by Cree artist TJ Cuthand,[4] and commonly used by Indigenous artists including Oji-Cree storyteller, Joshua Whitehead.[5] The term is interconnected with Two-spirit, an identity and role that continues to be vital within and across many Indigenous nations.[6][4] Through artistic projects, Riley engages Indigenous methodologies that prioritize learning through embodiment, nurturing communities as well as the non-human world.[7] Riley received her BFA from the University of Texas at Austin in 2012.[8] Riley is a recipient of the City of Vancouver Studio Award (2018–2021).[9]
From 2021 to 2022, Riley collaborated with artists Nadia Lichtig, Josèfa Ntjam, Jol Thoms, as well as physicists, chemists and engineers from SNOLAB on the exhibition Drift: Art and Dark Matter.[10] The project was conceived as both residency and exhibition, and has exhibited at the Agnes Etherington Art Centre, Morris and Helen Belkin Art Gallery and the Carleton University Art Gallery.[11][12]
From 2017 to 2019, Riley and her collaborator, T’uy’t’tanat-Cease Wyss, worked on a public art project, A Constellation of Remediation, commissioned by the City of Vancouver.[1] The project consisted of planting Indigenous remediation gardens on vacant gas station lots throughout the city as a way of decolonizing and healing the soil.[2]
For the exhibition Every Little Bit Hurts, at the Western Front Society in Vancouver in 2015, Riley created an installation titled that brings the other nearly as close as oneself.[13] It consisted of a sculpture, made of 62 plaster molds of replicas of Riley's hands holding each other, and two sets of blue drawings on the wall of the art gallery.[14] Those drawings were created as a remnant of Riley's performance, which was documented on video and also exhibited at the exhibition.[13]
In 2015, Riley attended the Time_Place_Space: Nomad residency program in Melbourne, Australia. There, Riley expanded her scope of art practice to performance and examined experiences of silence as gestures of resilience.[15]
Riley's artworks often refer to Indigenous people's experiences, decolonization of Indigenous and women bodies, two-spirits, and healing of land and people from traumatic experiences.
Exhibitions include:
Odsal Stadium (known as Bartercard Odsal Stadium for sponsorship reasons) in Bradford, West Yorkshire, England, is a multi-purpose stadium currently the home of Bradford Bulls Rugby League team and Yorstox Stock Cars who host regular monthly meetings of BriSCA F1 Stock Cars and BriSCA F2 Stock Cars.[2] It has also been used by the Bradford Dukes speedway team, hosting the 1997 Speedway Grand Prix of Great Britain. The football team Bradford City used Odsal as a temporary groundshare following the Valley Parade fire while their ground was rebuilt. Odsal Stadium has also historically hosted baseball, women's football, American football, basketball, kabbadi, show jumping, tennis, live music concerts, and international Rugby League matches over the years.
The stadium's highest attendance was 102,569 in 1954 for the Warrington-Halifax Challenge Cup Final replay,[3][4] and for a domestic, non-final, Rugby League match, 69,429 at the third round Challenge Cup tie between Bradford Northern and Huddersfield in 1953.[5] The stadium is owned by Bradford City Council, but due to financial problems the Rugby Football League purchased the leasehold in 2012.[6]
The Bulls left Odsal in 2019 because of ongoing financial concerns and rising administration costs in a single-use stadium, playing at Crown Flatt in Dewsbury[7]  for two seasons, however due to the return of professional stock car racing as a joint tenancy in a multi-use stadium, they were able to return to Odsal in 2021 initially on a provisional eighteen months lease.[8]
Formed in 1907, the Bradford Northern club had played at a number of venues including the Greenfield Athletic Ground in Dudley Hill and Bowling Old Lane Cricket Club's ground in Birch Lane.[9] By the early 1920s, however, Birch Lane's limitations were clear and Northern began to seek another home. Precarious finances prevented the club being able to take up an offer to develop land off Rooley Lane or to upgrade and move back to Greenfield, but in 1933, Bradford City Council gave them the opportunity to transform land at Odsal Top into their home ground. On 20 June 1933 the club therefore signed a ten-year deal on the site, which was to become the biggest stadium in England outside Wembley.[10]
The site was a former quarry which was then being used as a landfill tip. Ernest Call M.B.E., the Director of Cleansing for Bradford City Council devised a system of controlled tipping that saw 140,000 cart loads of household waste deposited to form the characteristic banking at Odsal. The club were to be responsible for boundary fencing, dressing rooms and seated accommodation.
To be able to turf the pitch, and other areas, a turf fund was put into place which raised a total of £900 to cover the work. A stand was erected at the cost of £2,000, which was paid for by the Rugby Football League. It held 1,500 on a mixture of benches and tip-up seats.
The ground was officially opened by Sir Joseph Taylor, President of Huddersfield on 1 September 1934. His club went on to beat the hosts 31–16, Australian winger Ray Markham scoring four tries in front of an estimated 20,000.[11] The clubhouse and dressing rooms were officially opened before a match against Hull F.C. on 2 February 1935. Contemporary pictures show that as late as August 1935 the banking on the Rooley Avenue side was still being created.[10]
Under the instruction of Bradford Northern RFLC director Harry Hornby and local motorsport promoter Johnnie Hoskins, a sloping oval compacted dirt track was especially designed to surround the rugby pitch to allow professional speedway racing to take place at Odsal in 1945,[12] the initial Bradford team known as the Odsal Boomerangs. In the post-Second World War years, speedway proved extremely popular with crowds of over 20,000 regularly attending meetings at Odsal, with the 1946 average for the first year of the National League after the war. The highest speedway attendance during this period came on 5 July 1947 when 47,050 fans saw England defeat Australia 65–43 in a Test match. This remains the largest-ever speedway crowd for Odsal Stadium.
During the Second World War, the lower floor of the clubhouse was also used as an Air Raid Precautions centre, and one of the dressing rooms was the map room.[13] On 20 December 1947, the largest ever attendance for an international test at Odsal was set when 42,685 saw England defeat New Zealand 25–9. The first floodlit rugby match in the North of England was held at Odsal in 1951.[14] In September 1951, Council Engineer Ernest Wardley drew up a plan for a 92,000 capacity 'European' style stadium, at a cost of £250,000.[15] Eventually £50,000 was spent on terracing the Rooley Avenue end in 1964, before the Wardley plan was officially dropped the following year.[15]
After a disastrous 1960 season, the Panthers (previously the Odsal Boomerangs) left Odsal and in 1961 moved across town to the Greenfield Stadium, better known for greyhound racing. After the Panthers folded in 1962, Motorcycle Speedway would not return to Bradford for another 10 years.
Speedway returned to Odsal when promoters Les Whaley, Mike Parker and Bill Bridgett moved the British League Division Two side Nelson Admirals across the Pennines for the final eleven league meetings of the 1970 season and went on to adopt Bradford Northern as their name and red, black and amber as their colours. Northern would finish second in Division 2 in 1971, but from there results and attendances steadily declined and the team folded after 1973.
The second test of the 1978 Ashes series was played at Odsal, with Great Britain defeating Australia before a crowd of 26,761. The Lions team that day featured what was called a "Dad's Army" front row with Jim Mills, Tony Fisher and Brian Lockwood all being over the age of 30.
The ground's clubhouse had to be refurbished when it was condemned in the mid-1980s. The social facilities were also upgraded at the same time.
Speedway returned to Odsal in 1985 after a ten-year absence when it was selected by the FIM to host the 1985 World Final.
Following the Valley Parade fire disaster of 1985, Bradford City played a handful of games at Leeds Road and Elland Road whilst Valley Parade was being rebuilt. On 23 September 1985, a Football League delegation visited Odsal to view the stadium to pass it fit to host City's home games. Segregation fences were erected on the old Main Stand side and 1,000 uncovered seats were bolted onto the terracing – it was planned to install 7,000 in the future. Meanwhile, a further £1 million was spent to conform with new safety standards – bringing the total spent on Odsal to £3.5 million. New boundary walls, turnstiles, exit gates, a bus layby in Rooley Avenue and access road were added. Odsal played host to Bradford City's Division Two home games until December 1986. 
Like most British stadia, Odsal had its capacity substantially reduced by the safety measures introduced in the 1990s following the Hillsborough disaster and the findings of the Taylor Report.
At the dawn of the Super League era in 1996, Bradford Bulls wanted to attract new sponsors but had poor and outdated hospitality suites. In 2000 they announced plans to build hospitality suites at the South End of the stadium which would mean building on the track around the pitch, effectively ending speedway's association with Bradford. Construction started in 2001 and was completed in 2002 with Bradford Bulls playing two seasons at Valley Parade.
After London won the right to host the 2012 Olympic Games in 2008, plans were put in place for an Olympic Legacy Park at Odsal, which would mean redeveloping the stadium and the Richard Dunn Leisure Centre opposite; these plans never came to fruition and a Legacy Park was built in Sheffield instead.
In 2012, the Bulls got into severe financial difficulties and the RFL stepped in and bought the lease to Odsal. Since being relegated to the Betfred Championship in 2014, their problems intensified. In early 2017 the Bulls were formally liquidated and a new phoenix club was formed by Andrew Chalmers, who announced plans to redevelop Odsal into a venue fit for Super League and international rugby league, however, like previous plans, they were shelved. Nearby football club Bradford Park Avenue whose current location is the Bradford Council-owned football ground Horsfall Stadium had on several occasions discussed relocating to Odsal, most recently in 2018, however they repeatedly decided against such a move, leaving Odsal as a single-rent, single-use stadium.[16]
Due to the club's ongoing precarious financial situation and increasing running costs at the stadium, including the £72,000 rent payable to the Rugby Football League, the Bradford Bulls made the decision to leave Odsal for a financially prudent ground share with Dewsbury to ensure the club's survival.[17] On 1 September 2019, the club played what was believed to be their last game at Odsal, which had been the team's home ground for 85 years.[18]
Talks with the RFL were ongoing during their absence. Two years later in 2021, they agreed a return to the stadium as a co-tenant with stock car promoters YorStox (formerly StarTrax). In 2021, the shale motorsport racing track was restored for the return of regular professional BriSCA F1 and BriSCA F2 stock car meetings, which resulted in the reintroduction of removable pitch corners and a narrowing of the rugby pitch. Despite the resultant changes to the pitch rendering it beneath minimum standards for professional rugby league, the sport's governing body allowed the Bulls to return to their former home.[19]
The Bulls’ acting chief executive, Mark Sawyer, told Rugby League Live: “Staging motorsport events is the first piece in the jigsaw puzzle towards how we’re going to balance the books at Odsal". He also revealed that the Bulls themselves were considering entering their own participants in motorcar racing at Odsal, “We’re going to have stock car racing and a bit of banger racing where Bradford Bulls themselves might enter a team into that", he added, stressing that he believed Bulls supporters were positive about the return of motorsports, quoted as saying “The feedback we get from our Bradford supporter base is that a number of them are interested in watching motorsport.[20]
Rugby League has featured at Odsal Stadium since it opened on 1 September 1934 when Huddersfield beat Bradford Northern 31 points to 16, Northern later to be renamed the Bradford Bulls in 1996 at the beginning of Super League. Besides club rugby, Odsal has hosted various international fixtures including test matches, tour games and Rugby League World / European Cup fixtures, some of which involved Bradford teams facing international opposition, the results of which are as follows: – 
[21]
Odsal Stadium has hosted professional stock cars events since the sport arrived in England. The sport originated in the early 1950s at the Buffalo Stadium in Paris France, cars based upon the design of early American NASCAR vehicles, the first British meeting taking place on Good Friday 16 April 1954 at New Cross in South East London. After two further meetings at New Cross, Odsal hosted the UK's fourth stock car event featuring V8 engine cars on Wednesday 26 May 1954 with a crowd of 38,000 spectators.[22]
As worded in the Telegraph & Argus newspaper, [23]"The survival of the home of Bradford Northern was dependent on attracting other sports to share the stadium with rugby league", a situation similar to 2021 when the Bradford Bulls (Northern later becoming known as the Bulls) relocated back to Odsal following the return of BriSCA stock car events. 
In the Seventies, stock car meetings happened on Saturdays, sometimes taking place 24 hours before a rugby league match on the following Sunday, which meant ground conversions had to be carried out expediently.[24] Concerned about the survival of stock cars at Odsal, co-promoter Barry Gomersall introduced BriSCA Formula Two stock cars which were popular at Southern tracks. In June 1976, to further boost attendance, Gomersall, a former wrestler, added open-air wrestling to the bill, featuring himself and professional wrestler Jackie Pallo. 
Originally shale, the Odsal motorsport track was tarmacked over in 1977 by Stuart Bamforth,[25] although shale was to return in 1985 to accommodate the Speedway World Final. The temporary relocation of Bradford City A.F.C. following the Bradford City stadium fire resulted in a pause of stock car racing at Odsal in 1986, however the sport returned the following year. Odsal, along with Belle Vue in Manchester, Coventry, Long Eaton and Northampton were at the time the main national BriSCA tracks.[26] Promoter Steve Rees took over the management of the sport at the stadium in 1996, aiming to boost its status, however a year later in 1997, the RFL chose to cancel the venue's multi-use at the start of Super League, a decision which meant the abandonment of both stock cars and speedway at Odsal, the speedway pits area becoming an executive box block, until the shale track's eventual return in 2021 when Steve Rees successfully renegotiated the return of regular motorsports with the RFL and Bradford Council. 
Steve Rees's Lytham St Annes-based Startrax handed over the reins of management to Buxton-based promotions company Yorstox [27] run by Derbyshire-based businessmen Russell Andrew and Graeme Robson [28] who also manage stock car racing facilities at Owlerton Stadium in Sheffield. Motorsports successfully returned to Odsal Stadium on 22 May 2021 for the first time in 23 years, the stadium hosting the national banger Stan Woods Memorial for pre 1975 cars, an event witnessed by 4000 fans. Since September 2021, the stadium has hosted both BriSCA F1 and BriSCA F2 stock car meetings, including the BriSCA F1 World Championships with drivers participating from across Europe,[29] and currently hosts regular monthly stock car meetings and banger racing on its restored flattened shale track.
Odsal hosts occasional and regular activities outside of the sporting realm, which include live music events and festivals. In 2022, the Bradford Dance Festival featured the DJ and rapper Tom Zanetti.[31] Other events which take place at Odsal include talks, lectures, business conferences, monthly fundraising car boot sales, [32] religious and community events, and annual bonfire / monster truck events,[33] the function suites available for hire. In 2023, Bradford Bulls hosted their first ever Iftar event.[34]
Speedway first took place at Odsal Stadium on 23 June 1945. Prior to that, in 1936, two years after the venue opened, the first foundations of motorsport were laid in Bradford when the Bradford and District Motor Club ran a mountain grass track event using the embankment at the north end of the stadium, the turf reported to have been badly cut up afterwards. [35]
The director of the rugby league Club, Harry Hornby collaborated with local event promoter Johnnie Hoskins to bring speedway to the venue, the resultant 390 yards (360 m) oval circuit designed and built around the rugby pitch utilised for both Motorcycle speedway and stock cars racing. In 1948, a pioneering three feet in width concrete starting gate platform was also constructed at Odsal which was believed to have been the first of its kind used in United Kingdom speedway events.[36]
The original Bradford team competing at Odsal were known as the Bradford Boomerangs. After finishing at the bottom of the National League in 1948 and 1949, the Boomerangs folded and were replaced in 1950 by the Odsal Tudors. Despite the name change, fortunes remained the same with the Tudors finishing on the bottom of the NL ladder in 1951. In 1959 the Tudors dropped the Odsal name and were renamed the Bradford Tudors. 
In 1960, the Bradford Tudors renamed themselves the Bradford Panthers. After a disastrous 1960 season, the Panthers left Odsal and in 1961 moved across town to the Greenfield Stadium, better known for greyhound racing. After the Panthers folded in 1962, Motorcycle Speedway would not return to Bradford for another 10 years.
Speedway returned to Odsal when promoters Les Whaley, Mike Parker and Bill Bridgett moved the British League Division Two side Nelson Admirals across the Pennines for the final eleven league meetings of the 1970 season. The Admirals adopted the Bradford Northern name and colours, though the move was met with opposition from the nearby Halifax Dukes. Northern would finish second in Division Two in 1971, but from there results and attendances steadily declined and the team folded in 1973.
The following year, Bradford Barons were formed, but they were also short lived and only lasted the years 1974 and 1975. Speedway would once again not return to Bradford for another 10 years.
Speedway returned to Odsal in 1985 when it was selected by the FIM to host the 1985 World Final, the first time the Final in England would not be held at Wembley Stadium. In the three years after the 1981 World Final at Wembley, international speedway's home in Great Britain had been the White City Stadium in London. However, with the closure of White City in 1985 a new home would be needed and the 30,000 capacity Odsal was chosen. A capacity crowd at the 1985 World Final saw a titanic fight between Denmark's defending World Champion Erik Gundersen, his fellow countryman Hans Nielsen, and American rider Sam Ermolenko. The trio all finished the meeting on 13 points each which saw a three-way runoff for the top 3 placings with Gundersen winning from Nielsen and Ermolenko. Just a month prior to the World Final, Odsal also hosted the Overseas Final as part of the World Final qualifications. That meeting saw two riders finish at the top on 14 points, American Shawn Moran and English favourite, Halifax Dukes rider Kenny Carter. Moran would defeat Carter in the runoff for the Overseas title.
In March 1986, Odsal opened its doors to British League action for the first time since the 1950s after the Halifax Dukes were offered a new home track. The new 'Bradford Dukes' team would in later years include World Champions Gary Havelock and Mark Loram, multiple British and Long Track World Champions Simon Wigg and Kelvin Tatum, and dual Australian Champion Glenn Doyle. However, the club suffered the tragic loss of Kenny Carter who died in murder/suicide after shooting his wife and then himself at their home in May 1986.
Odsal Stadium hosted its second World Final in 1990. Swedish rider Per Jonsson won his only World Championship when he defeated Shawn Moran in a runoff after both had finished the meeting on 13 points. Moran was later stripped of his silver medal by the FIM after he had tested positive to a drug test taken three months earlier at the Overseas Final in Coventry. Moran claimed that the drug he took was a pain killer prescribed by a doctor in Sweden, but the FIM stood firm. They also did not upgrade the standings and the official records show no second place rider. Young Australian rider Todd Wiltshire riding in his first World Final surprised many by finishing in third place with 12 points.
From 1987, Bradford speedway then enjoyed its greatest period of success, winning eight trophies until the club's closure in 1997 when despite winning the Elite League, the club folded for the third time.
Odsal Stadium hosted the 1997 Speedway Grand Prix of Great Britain. Danish rider Brian Andersen won the Grand Prix from America's reigning World Champion Billy Hamill, with Swede Jimmy Nilsen finishing third in the Final. Bradford Dukes rider Mark Loram finished 4th in the Final. Loram would later go on to be the 2000 World Champion after winning the Speedway Grand Prix series that year.
* Odsal hosted the third of 3 rounds in the Final.
Several American Football games were played at Odsal in 1988 when the Leeds Cougars home ground, McLaren Field in Bramley was being reseeded.[37] Against the Glasgow Lions, the Cougars won 15–12 after a last minute field-goal by Linebacker Glenn Stowe with just twenty seconds to go.[38] In the other Odsal fixture against the Fylde Falcons, the Cougars were narrowly defeated by 17 points to 8.[39]
Following the popularity of these two games, good turnouts reported at the natural bowl of Odsal, the Leeds Cougars made Odsal their home-base for the entire 1989 season.[40] Victories included a 56 – 22 win against the Leicester Panthers, 26–12 against the Nottingham Hoods, a comfortable 63 – 30 win against the Northampton Stormbringers, and a nail-biting 20–14 victory against the conference leaders the Birmingham Bulls. A complete copy of the Budweiser National Division matchday programme vs Birmingham, along with other programmes, has been archived online at the Leeds Cougars History website.[41]
YouTube features an archived video recording of the Leeds Cougars versus Birmingham Bulls American Football fixture at Odsal: [42]
In August 1939, despite an FA ban on women's football, an international women's match took place at Odsal featuring Preston Ladies versus an all-star Belgian women's team. The match was attended by the Lord Mayor and local football dignitaries including the directors of Bradford City and Bradford Park Avenue. David Steele, manager of Bradford Park Avenue was the referee and two Avenue players, Bob Danskin and Chick Farr were linesmen.[43]
Equestrian events took place at Odsal Stadium in 1957 and again in 1958.[44]The top prize of £1,000 was available to the winner, plus trophies for the winner and runner up. Thirty tonnes of river sand was spread across the pitch to give the horses a softer landing when jumping the fences. Ted Williams was the winner of the Airedale Stakes showjumping competition. An expected 20,000 spectators on the second and final day never materialised, just 6,000 people attending, which resulted in the event making a loss of £1,700. Despite this, showjumping returned the following year, before being permanently cancelled by Bradford Northern's directors as unprofitable, the event replaced by a series of miniature car races in 1959. 
Baseball became popular in the 1930s, played in stadiums throughout Northern England until the outbreak of Second World War, after which it faded. Gambling was permitted on the games, and pools magnate Sir John Moores from Littlewoods sponsored and provided kit to the newly-launched North of England League, baseball providing rugby league and football clubs with off-season summer income. In the inaugural competition hosted in 1935, two years after Odsal Stadium opened, Bradford Northern RLFC entered a baseball team also called Bradford Northern who came second in the league to the champions Oldham Greyhounds with ten wins out of fourteen. Other nearby baseball clubs in Bradford included the City Sox and the Greenfield Giants who were based two miles away at the Greenfield Stadium, Bradford at Dudley Hill. Bradford's baseball history is noted in the book 'British Baseball and the West Ham Club' by Josh Chetwynd and Brian A. Belton, which was published in 2007. A readable excerpt is featured on Google Books which mentions Odsal and the Bradford clubs.[45]
In 1939, Odsal Stadium played host to the British Isles and Western Europe tour of the leading men's tennis players of the day: Donald Budge, Big Bill Tilden, H. Ellsworth Vines, and Lester Stoefen. A film capturing this event was created by local filmmaker, C. H. Wood which additionally features a rugby league cup semi final which took place at the time at Odsal, and is available to watch online at the Yorkshire and North East Film Archive.[46]
Other sports which have been played at Odsal since opening, include basketball and kabbadi.
The stadium is unusual for UK stadia – a sunken bowl featuring a grass pitch surrounded by an oval shale motorsports track.
Capacity- 7,290 (standing)
The Rooley Avenue End is at the northern end of the stadium. It is open terracing and is where the big screen is erected for televised games. The stand has turnstiles that back onto Rooley Avenue.
Capacity- 4,890 (seating)
The East Stand is the only part of the ground that is covered and has seating. The stand runs parallel to the pitch and has "BULLS" spelt out on the seats. The stand houses home supporters and most season ticket holders as well as the press and some executive seats. There are also bars and toilets at the top of the stand.
Capacity- 620 (seating)
The South Bank is the stadium's commercial hospitality stand and the most recently built structure, having been completed in 2002. It has two levels, each containing a banqueting suite and seats looking out onto the pitch. Speedway was forced to end its association with Odsal after the hospitality building was built.
Capacity- 9,309 (standing)
The West Stand is uncovered terracing and houses the players changing rooms and tunnel as well as TV gantry at the top of the stand. The supporters' bar is in the north-west corner of the stand which also houses a manual scoreboard and clock. At the top of the stand, on ground level with Rooley Avenue, is the car park and club shop and ticket office. There are a few hospitality boxes at the top of the stand, but these have not been used since the construction of the South Bank.
The pitch at Odsal has a distinctive concave contour, with the corners behind the try-line noticeably sloping up towards the stands, due to the stadium hosting F1 and F2 stock cars, and previously speedway, the corners of the pitch removed to allow full use of the track. When stock cars and speedway departed Odsal, the corners became semi-permanent and were not as pronounced as they once were, however since the successful return of stock cars and banger racing in 2021 and the associated re-addition of a sloping shale track, significant removable sloping corner pieces have returned. The pitch has also been narrowed by several meters to accommodate the motorsports racing track.
There has been a specialist oval racing track at Odsal in-place for motorcycle speedway and later, stock cars, since 1945. Implemented by Bradford Northern rugby director Harry Hornby and motorsports promoter Johnnie Hoskins, the original surface surrounding the rugby pitch was an especially designed sloping compacted dirt track.[47] Over the decades, the shape of the track has remained the same, although the surface has alternated between dirt, shale and tarmac, dependent upon the stadium's usage at the time. When speedway ceased in 1977, the shale track was tarmacked over by Stuart Bamforth, [48] stock cars continuing to race on the tarmac surface, shale later returning for the 1985 Speedway World Final. 
The track remained shale until motorsports were forced to leave in Odsal in 1997, during which time the Bradford Dukes were crowned Elite Speedway Champions, ending the stadium's long association with car and motorbike racing. Assuming motorsport wouldn't return, in 1990, the shale was relocated to create a new racing track in Somerset. [49]
The remaining track underlay was reduced in width and tarmacked over, expanding the width of the pitch while leaving the track in a state of cracked disrepair until stock car promoter Steve Rees negotiated a change of heart from the RFL who permitted competitive motorsports to return. Although speedway failed to make a comeback as the media suggested may happen, [50] under the management of Rees's Startrax, stock cars and banger racing successfully made a comeback the following year, enabling the Bradford Bulls to return home from exile.[51]
7000 fans attended the F1 World Final in August 2021, however a rain-drenched end of term ‘firework spectacular’ later that year exposed critical drainage problems which required urgent attention. [52]Taking over the reigns from Startrax, the new promotions company assuming management of motorsports at Odsal, YorStox, discovered the drains were not properly connected. Addressing the issue so the problem wouldn't return, they also re-laid a modified surface. “We are putting down a different type of shale, but the main problem was the drainage,” YorStox promoter Russell Andrew told the Telegraph and Argus Newspaper.
In the run up to the 2012 London Olympics, Bradford City Council bid for an Olympic Legacy Park to be built at Odsal and the Richard Dunn Sport Centre. Bradford's bid was turned down in favour of Sheffield, making the prospect of improvements to Odsal in the near future unlikely.
For two periods between 2006 and 2017 the ground officially carried the name of the Bradford Bulls' principle sponsor.  From 2006 until 2010 it was referred to as the Grattan Stadium, Odsal due to sponsorship from retail company Grattan. From 2013 until 2017 it was referred to as the Provident Stadium, the sponsors being Provident Financial.
In March 2024, the Bulls confirmed trading exchange company Bartercard would assume the naming rights to Odsal, with the stadium known as Bartercard Odsal Stadium.
Odsal Stadium Official Website
Manchester United Methodist Church (formerly Manchester Methodist Episcopal Church, abbreviated Manchester UMC) is a United Methodist church in Manchester, Missouri. It was the first church to be established in the western part of St. Louis County and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.[2] The church is among the largest United Methodist congregations in Missouri, with over 2,700 members.[3] In 2019, Manchester UMC reported a weekly attendance of 1,069[4]
Before the church building was built, the area had been a preaching place of the St. Louis Circuit. However, it is unknown when the first Methodist services were held. In 1844, the Methodist Church split and the St. Louis Circuit joined the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. Construction for the chapel started in 1856, and in 1859, Sunday School classes were held in its basement until it officially opened later that year, with a total building cost of $6,389.00. An educational building and offices were added in 1965, both located west of the chapel. The educational building, designed by St. Louis architect Lester Black, is two stories and contains twelve rooms. The church office building is also two stories. In 1968, construction for a new sanctuary began. The Contemporary Colonial style building was designed by P. J. Hoener and Associates. Just north of the church buildings is a cemetery belonging to the church. The original Greek Revival chapel was a brick building over a limestone foundation. It originally had two separate entrances, one for men and the other for women.[2] In 1984, the newer sanctuary was enlarged and the educational building was renovated. The sanctuary was again updated in 1993. In 1997, construction for a new, larger sanctuary began designed by Gale A. Hill & Associates (Kouba+Knoop Associates), and it opened in 1998.[5] The church's first official pastor was Wesley Browning. During the American Civil War, the church held regular services with regular ministers, which was uncommon in Missouri during the war.[2]
In 1983, abnormally high levels of dioxin were discovered in the soil around the church's southern side.[6] The church began holding an annual Fair Trade Market in 2003, the largest fair trade shopping event in the United States.[7] The project was founded by Kellee Sikes, Plowsharing Crafts and the Justice Advocates of Manchester United Methodist Church.[8] In 2015 the pipe organ in the sanctuary was rebuilt and enlarged by R.A. Colby of Johnson City, TN. The organ contains the only moveable five manual console in the state of Missouri and it is the largest hybrid (pipe/digital) organ in this part of the country.
Henry Lawrence Garrett III (born June 24, 1939)[1] served as the 68th Secretary of the Navy from May 15, 1989, to June 26, 1992, in the administration of George H. W. Bush.[2] Before leading the Department of the Navy, he served as General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
Garrett served in the U.S. Navy from October 1961 to November 1981,[3] initially as a machinist's mate aboard USS Sea Poacher during the Cuban Missile Crisis,[4] before getting commissioned as a naval flight officer in 1964. He served with VP-50 in the Vietnam War from 1965 to 1967 and was awarded the Air Medal two times during his military career. Garrett was the 68th United States Secretary of the Navy.
Garrett ultimately resigned due to the Tailhook scandal.[5]
Secretary Garrett has been a very active supporter of the Naval Aviation Museum and the Naval Aviation Museum Foundation. He is a long time member of the Aviation Museum Board of Trustees, contributing his time, valuable resources and sage advice and counsel to the overall success of the institution.
Mr. Garrett retired as an Executive Vice President of Rolls-Royce North America supporting the sale and operation of Rolls-Royce engines in the USN and US Marine Corps, Adour and Pegasus. He was formerly a partner in the Washington law firm of Lipsen, Hamberger, and Garrett.

This biographical article related to the United States Navy is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Irlam is a town in the City of Salford Metropolitan Borough, Greater Manchester, England.  The town and the area of Cadishead contain three listed buildings that are recorded in the National Heritage List for England.  All the listed buildings are designated at Grade II, the lowest of the three grades, which is applied to "buildings of national importance and special interest".[1] They consist of two 17th-century houses and a war memorial.
Download coordinates as:
See text
Clinteria is a genus of scarab beetles in the subfamily Cetoniinae found in Asia. The genus is characterized by the scutellum fused with the pronotum.
Clinteria alboguttata Moser, 1905
Clinteria alexisi Antoine, 2001
Clinteria arunachala Chatterjee & Saha, 1981
Clinteria atra (Wiedemann, 1823)
Clinteria baliensis Krajcik & Jakl, 2007
Clinteria belli Janson, 1901
Clinteria buffeventi Bourgoin, 1916
Clinteria caliginosa Janson, 1889
Clinteria ceylonensis Krajcik, 2009
Clinteria chloronota Blanchard, 1850
Clinteria cinctipennis (Gory & Percheron, 1833)
Clinteria coerulea (Herbst, 1783)
Clinteria confinis (Hope, 1831)
Clinteria dimorpha Arrow, 1916
Clinteria ducalis White, 1856
Clinteria flavonotata (Gory & Percheron, 1833)
Clinteria flora Wallace, 1867
Clinteria fraterna Miksic, 1977
Clinteria freyneyi Pavicevic, 1987
Clinteria fujiokai Jakl, 2007
Clinteria hearseiana Westwood, 1849
Clinteria hoffmeisteri White, 1847
Clinteria imperialis (Paykull, 1817)
Clinteria jansoni Schoch, 1898
Clinteria jirouxi Legrand, 2005
Clinteria kaorusakaii Jakl & Krajcik, 2006
Clinteria keiseri Schein, 1956
Clinteria klugi (Hope, 1831)
Clinteria krajciki Jakl, 2007
Clinteria laotica Krajcik & Jakl, 2007
Clinteria liewi Pavicevic, 1987
Clinteria magna Krajcik & Jakl, 2007
Clinteria malayensis Wallace, 1867
Clinteria moae Jakl, 2007
Clinteria moerens (Gory & Percheron, 1833)
Clinteria moultoni Moser, 1911
Clinteria nepalensis Krajcik, 2009
Clinteria nigra Kraatz, 1899
Clinteria pantherina Parry, 1848
Clinteria sakaii Antoine, 2000
Clinteria setulosa Miksic, 1977
Clinteria sexpustulata (Gory & Percheron, 1833)
Clinteria spilota (Hope, 1831)
Clinteria spuria Burmeister, 1847
Clinteria sternalis Moser, 1911
Clinteria surenderi Legrand, 2005
Clinteria tetraspilota (Hope, 1833)
Clinteria tosevski Pavicevic, 1984
Clinteria viridiaurata Jakl, 2007
Clinteria viridissima Mohnike, 1871
Clinteria vittigera Schoch, 1897
Clinteria wongi Pavicevic, 1987

This Cetoniinae article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Marcy Kahan (born 4 July) is a British playwright and radio dramatist, who is half-Canadian and half-American.[1][2] She is a prolific author of urbane comedies for the BBC. She was born in Montreal, educated at Somerville College, Oxford and trained in theatre in Paris with the Lecoq School teachers, Philippe Gaulier and Monika Pagneux. 
She was one of the writers of BBC Radio 4's soap opera Citizens.[15]
Steven M. Girvin is an American physicist[2] who is the Eugene Higgins Professor of Physics  at Yale University and who served as deputy provost for research at Yale from 2007 to 2017.[3] Girvin is noted for his theoretical work on quantum many body systems such as the fractional quantum Hall effect, and as co-developer of circuit QED, the application of the ideas of quantum optics to superconducting microwave circuits.  Circuit QED is now the leading architecture for construction of quantum computers based on superconducting qubits.
Girvin was born in Austin, Texas, in 1950 and went to high school in the small village of Brant Lake, New York.[3] A graduate of Bates College and the University of Maine, Girvin received his Ph.D. in physics from Princeton University in 1977 after completing a doctoral dissertation, titled "Topics in condensed matter physics: the role of exchange in the lithium K edge and the fluorescence spectrum of heavily doped cadmium sulphide", under the supervision of John J. Hopfield.[4] Girvin worked as a post-doctoral researcher at Indiana University, Bloomington and at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg, Sweden.   He then held a staff scientist position at the National Bureau of Standards (1979–87) and a held faculty position at Indiana University (1987-2001), before joining Yale as a professor of physics in 2001.[1]
Girvin's research focus has been theoretical study of collective quantum behavior in strongly correlated many body systems and their phase transitions,[5] he has worked on problems such as the quantum Hall effect, the superconductor-insulator transition, and quantum spin chains. He works with experimentalists Robert Schoelkopf and Michel Devoret on the engineering problem of building a quantum computer,[3] and on developing "circuit QED" using superconducting electrical circuits.[6] The group experimentally implemented the first all-electronic quantum processor and executed two-qubit quantum algorithms in 2009.[7][8] Girvin co-edited the book "The Quantum Hall Effect", which has been translated to Japanese, Chinese and Russian.[3]  Together with co-author Kun Yang, Girvin published the Cambridge Press textbook "Modern Condensed Matter Physics" in 2019.
Girvin, James P. Eisenstein and Allan H. MacDonald won the 2007 Oliver E. Buckley Condensed Matter Prize for their "Fundamental experimental and theoretical research on correlated many-electron states in low dimensional systems".[6]
In September 2020, Girvin was appointed as the founding director of the Co-design Center for Quantum Advantage (C2QA) located at Brookhaven National Laboratory, one of five national quantum information science research centers funded by the Department of Energy. C2QA comprises 88 principal investigators across 24 institutions who "do the basic research needed to make dramatic advances in the performance of quantum computer modules".[9]
Starye Klyuchi (Russian: Старые Ключи) is a rural locality (a selo) in Bichursky District, Republic of Buryatia, Russia. The population was 179 as of 2010.[2] There are 2 streets.
Starye Klyuchi is located 43 km west of Bichura (the district's administrative centre) by road. Okino-Klyuchi is the nearest rural locality.[3]
This Buryatia location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Peter Lindau (born 9 December 1972) is a retired Swedish football midfielder.
He started his career in Halmstads BK, and joined Lunds BK in 1994. He broke his leg and only got three matches, but joined IS Halmia the next year.[2] He joined Ayr United in August 1999, and remained with them until August 2000. In between he spent time on loan at Partick Thistle from December 1999 to March 2000. In August 2000 he joined Partick Thistle permanently, leaving them in June 2001.[3] He then joined Strømsgodset IF, and played eleven Norwegian Premier League game in 2001, scoring four goals.[4] Strømsgodset were relegated, but Lindau stayed there until after the 2004 season. He was rumored to transfer to IF Birkebeineren, Mjøndalen IF or Hønefoss BK,[5][6] but chose Kongsvinger IL. He scored 12 goals in 67 games over three seasons.[1]
Ahead of the 2008 season he became head coach of IS Halmia.[7]

This biographical article related to an association football midfielder from Sweden is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Hjälmared is a locality situated in Alingsås Municipality, Västra Götaland County, Sweden. It had 260 inhabitants in 2010.[1]

This article about a location in Västra Götaland County, Sweden is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A marina (from Spanish [maˈɾina], Portuguese [mɐˈɾinɐ] and Italian [maˈriːna]: "related to the sea") is a dock or basin with moorings and supplies for yachts and small boats.
A marina differs from a port in that a marina does not handle large passenger ships or cargo from freighters.
The word marina may also refer to an inland wharf on a river or canal that is used exclusively by non-industrial pleasure craft such as canal narrowboats.
Marinas may be located along the banks of rivers connecting to lakes or seas and may be inland.
They are also located on coastal harbors (natural or man made) or coastal lagoons, either as stand alone facilities or within a port complex.
In the 19th century, the few existing pleasure craft shared the same facilities as trading and fishing vessels. The marina appeared in the 20th century with the popularization of yachting.
A marina may have refuelling, washing and repair facilities, marine and boat chandlers, stores and restaurants.
A marina may include ground facilities such as parking lots for vehicles and boat trailers. Slipways (or boat ramps) transfer a trailered boat into the water.
A marina may have a travel lift, a specialised crane used for lifting heavier boats out of the water and transporting them around the hard stand. A marina may provide in- or out-of-water boat storage.
Fee-based services such as parking, use of picnic areas, pubs, and clubhouses for showers are usually included in long-term rental agreements. Visiting yachtsmen usually have the option of buying each amenity from a fixed schedule of fees; arrangements can be as wide as a single use, such as a shower, or several weeks of temporary berthing. The right to use the facilities is frequently extended at overnight or period rates to visiting yachtsmen.
Since marinas are often limited by available space, it may take years on a waiting list to get a permanent berth.
Boats are moored on buoys, on fixed or floating walkways tied to an anchoring piling by a roller or ring mechanism (floating docks, pontoons).
Buoys are cheaper to rent but less convenient than being able to walk from land to boat. Harbor shuttles (water taxis) or launches, may transfer people between the shore and boats moored on buoys.
The alternative is a tender such as an inflatable boat. Facilities offering fuel, boat ramps and stores will normally have a common-use dock set aside for such short term parking needs.
Where the tidal range is large, marinas may use locks to maintain the water level for several hours before and after low water.
Marinas may be owned and operated by a private club, especially yacht clubs — but also as private enterprises or municipal facilities. Marinas may be standalone private businesses, components of a resort, or owned and operated by public entities.
"MARINA - Maritime Industry Authority". SeamanRepublic.com. Retrieved 12 March 2015.
Symphony No. 2, Op. 19 is a three-movement work for orchestra by the American composer Samuel Barber. The 25-minute work was originally written in 1944. The work underwent many revisions and was finally published in 1950. The original manuscript was withdrawn by Barber in 1964. He ordered that G. Schirmer destroy the original manuscript and all scores in their library. The work remained unpublished for many years until 1984 when a set of parts turned up in a warehouse in England. Renewed interest in Barber's work led to a 1990 reprint of the 1950 edition.
Samuel Barber began his composition career at the age of seven. He was accepted in the prestigious Curtis Institute of Music at age 14. He received critical acclaim for his early compositions including the Overture to the School for Scandal and Adagio for Strings. His early success led to a commission from the United States Air Force in 1943 to write a "symphonic work about flyers". The request came soon after he joined the United States Army in 1942. Barber spent time at a U.S. Air Force base so that he could take part in flight training and battle simulations.[1] He was given four months to write the piece with the understanding that the army would receive all of the royalties forever.[2]
General Barton K. Yount approached Samuel Barber about the commission and asked him to include "modern devices" in the composition. Barber honored this request by using an electronic tone-generator built by Bell Telephone Laboratories in the second movement. This device was intended to represent the sound of a radio beam used to guide night flyers. The symphony was revised in 1947 to replace the electronic tone-generator with an E-flat clarinet.[3]
Symphony No. 2 was premiered on March 3, 1944, by the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Serge Koussevitzky conducted the premiere performance at Symphony Hall in Boston, MA.[4]
Samuel Barber withdrew the symphony in 1964 and ordered the destruction of the score and parts. His explanation implied to some that his piece was war propaganda. He went on to say, "Times of cataclysm are rarely conducive to the creation of good music, especially when the composer tries to say too much. But the lyrical voice, expressing the dilemma of the individual, may still be of reverence." Barber initially thought that the symphony was one of his finest works. However, after twenty years with infrequent performances, he decided that the symphony was, in his words, "not a good work".[5]
A set of orchestral parts that somehow escaped destruction were found in an English G. Schirmer warehouse in 1984. The parts were returned to New York where they were used for a recording by the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra with Andrew Schenck conducting.[6] A renewed interest in the music of Samuel Barber led to a re-release of Barber's revised second symphony in 1990.[7] In 1964 Barber salvaged the second movement of Symphony No. 2 as a tone poem, to which he gave the title Night Flight, Op. 19a. The single-movement work is identical to the symphony movement with only a few minor adjustments. Barber also incorporated the opening themes from the first movement of Symphony No. 2 in his opera, Anthony and Cleopatra (1966), and his orchestral work, Fadograph of a Yestern Scene (1971).[8]
The original release of Barber's Symphony No. 2 was widely criticized for various reasons. Several critics felt that the work was little more than war time propaganda. Many people complained about the inclusion of the electronic tone-generator in a symphonic work. Despite much criticism, the work also received many positive reviews. The work was generally viewed as Barber's most ambitious and contemporary work.[9] There was a great sense of tension and energy in the work that was palpable to audiences.[10]
The thematic material of Symphony No. 2 is designed to emulate the sensation of flying. Barber was very clear that he did not view the symphony as program music.[11] However, in his program notes he mentions that the first movement was meant to capture the excitement of flying while the second movement was inspired by his night flights. The final movement begins with very fast string passages with no barlines to express the sensation of flight.[12] Samuel Barber uses tension and release throughout to create a greater sense of energy. His use of ostinatos, polytonality,[13] dissonance, and angular lines create a work that can be described as one of Barber's most progressive works.[14] Barber would later revise the work and state that the symphony has no programmatic intentions.[11]
The first movement is in simple triple time and marked allegro ma non troppo. This movement, in sonata form, is the longest movement of the symphony lasting over twelve minutes. The movement opens with aggressive woodwind chords in seconds that move at the interval of a seventh. Then, the strings enter playing the initial theme that is based on the opening chords. Next, a second theme, based around sixteenth notes, leads into a lyrical theme from the oboe, which closes the exposition. The development begins with a contrapuntal passage that leads into a full orchestra statement based on the opening motif. The percussion section is used throughout to create diminution and augmentation of the theme.[15]
The second movement is in 5/4 time and marked andante, un poco mosso. The slow movement features solos by the English horn, flute, and E-flat clarinet. The piece, which tries to emulate a flier at night, is based on a slow ostinato 5/4 rhythm that is first played by the muted cellos and basses. The English horn enters over the accompaniment to perform a "lonely" melody in 4/4 time.[12] The juxtaposition of time signatures creates an oscillating rhythmic counterpoint that helps propel the movement forward. The second movement is the shortest movement in the work, lasting around seven minutes.[15] The work was later revised and edited to stand alone as Night Flight, a tone poem for orchestra.[16]
The third movement is in fast triple time and marked presto, senza battuta. The third movement is the most technical movement of the entire symphony. The final movement begins with a spiral figure for the strings in free rhythm that is interrupted by the brass section. This leads to a set of variations and a short fugue. The spiral section returns in the brass and also in the coda, which brings the work to an exciting finish. The final movement lasts approximately nine minutes.[17]
Barber's Symphony No. 2 has been recorded by over a dozen orchestras. A 1951 recording of the 1947 revised version of Symphony No. 2 is available by the New Symphony Orchestra with Samuel Barber conducting. The monaural recording was originally released on a ten-inch LP by London Records, who reissued it in 1956 on a twelve-inch disc, coupled with the ballet suite from Medea. This coupling was again reissued in 1970 on Everest Records, and in 1965 a new pairing of the symphony with Barber's Concerto for Cello and Orchestra, conducted by Barber with the same orchestra and Zara Nelsova, cello, was issued in London on the Ace of Clubs imprint of Decca Records. More recently, this recording of the symphony was released on CD by Pavilion Records in 2001.[18] A recording of the broadcast of the world premiere by the Boston Symphony Orchestra is held by the Motion Picture, Broadcasting, and Recorded Sound Division of the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.[19] This recording has been released commercially on CD by AS Disc in 1989, and by Pristine Audio in 2017 as part of Koussevitzky Conducts Barber, PASC 217.
Aiden Mesias (born 23 October 1999) is an English professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for USL League One club Forward Madison.
Mesias played for Charlton Athletic from the ages of 9 to 12 before spending six years with Queens Park Rangers.[1] In November 2019, Mesias joined USL Championship club Hartford Athletic.[2] On 20 July 2020, Mesias made his professional debut, coming on for the final three minutes in a 3–1 victory over Loudoun United.[3]
On 1 February 2022, Mesias joined Regionalliga Südwest side SSV Ulm 1846 on a deal until the end of the season after a successful trial period.[4]
Mesias signed with Forward Madison of USL League One on 18 January 2023.[5] He made his first appearance for the club on March 26, 2023, playing 72 minutes in a 1-1 draw at Union Omaha. He scored his first professional goal on May 27, 2023, in a 2-1 win at Union Omaha.
Mesias grew up in Camden Town. He was born to a Filipino father and a Timorese mother. His father grew up in Germany where he played lower division football.[1]

This biographical article related to association football in England, about a midfielder born in the 1990s, is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Northwestern University Virginia Wadsworth Wirtz Center for the Performing Arts exists as a for-profit operational and administrative body in association with the Northwestern University School of Communication with the specific charge of producing, managing, funding and administering the performing arts productions of the School of Communication, Department of Theatre and Department of Performance Studies, including programmatic responsibility for theatre, music theatre and dance.  The Theatre and Interpretation Center was built in 1980, and renamed in 2015 to the Virginia Wadsworth Wirtz Center for the Performing Arts.[1] The building contains a 450-seat thrust stage theater (Ethel M. Barber Theater), a 350-seat proscenium theater (the Josephine Louis Theater), two smaller black box theaters, a dance performance space, full theatrical production facilities, and offices for the center. Its plain white exterior walls and boxy, utilitarian shape stand in stark contrast to the nearby University Library, and earned it the nickname "The Box The Library Came In" among Northwestern students.
Each year, as many as forty productions are mounted in the Wirtz Center.[2] Of those forty, approximately eight are main stage productions staged in the Ethel M. Barber Theater and the Josephine Louis Theater and are directed by faculty, third-year MFA directing students, and guest artists. These productions include both classic and contemporary plays, dance performances and musical productions. In addition, the Wirtz Center produces the annual Waa-Mu Show, an original student written and performed musical and also the Summerfest which includes a two to three play series that is performed during the summer.  The center offers subscriptions for the entire season as well as for Summerfest. Currently there are over fifteen hundred subscribers who buy the season package. These patrons come from the University population as well as the neighboring communities.
42°3′7″N 87°40′22″W﻿ / ﻿42.05194°N 87.67278°W﻿ / 42.05194; -87.67278
Holy Trinity Church, Dover was a church designed by William Edmunds.[1] Building of the church began in September 1833 and it was completed in 1835.[2][1] It was demolished after being damaged by German air raids and cross-channel shelling during World War II.[1][3]


This article about a church or other Christian place of worship in England is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Monodonta sulcifera A. Adams, 1853 (original combination)
Herpetopoma sulciferum is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Chilodontidae.[1][2]
(Original description by A. Adams, in Latin) "Testa globoso-conica, umbilicata, fusca, cingulis granorum distantium moniliformibus, interstitiis profunde sulcatis, sulcis sublaevis, longitudinaliter striatis ornata; columella ad basin trisulcata, dente parvo acuto instructa; labro tenui, intus sulcato."[3]
This marine species occurs off Northwest Australia.

This Chilodontaidae-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
In enzymology, an imidazoleacetate—phosphoribosyldiphosphate ligase (EC 6.3.4.8) is an enzyme that catalyzes a chemical reaction
The 3 substrates of this enzyme are ATP, imidazole-4-acetate, and 5-phosphoribosyl diphosphate, whereas its 4 products are ADP, phosphate, 1-(5-phosphoribosyl)imidazole-4-acetate, and diphosphate.
This enzyme belongs to the family of ligases, specifically those forming generic carbon-nitrogen bonds.  The systematic name of this enzyme class is imidazoleacetate:5-phosphoribosyl-diphosphate ligase (ADP- and diphosphate-forming). This enzyme is also called 5-phosphoribosylimidazoleacetate synthetase.  This enzyme participates in histidine metabolism.

This EC 6.3 enzyme-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Ardmore is a large rural locality of Auckland, New Zealand, located to the south-east of Auckland CBD, just 27 km away. The suburb is in the Franklin Ward, one of the thirteen administrative divisions of Auckland, and is under local governance of Auckland Council.
The area contains Ardmore Airport, which is one of Auckland's busiest airports due to Ardmore Flying School. This rural tranquility is located just to the east of the Auckland Metropolitan Area with Papakura being the closest town (within the Auckland urban area). Ardmore has a state co-educational primary school which provides education for the local children but the older teenaged children are sent to several colleges throughout the Auckland area.
Ardmore Teachers' Training College was situated adjacent to the airfield from 1948 to 1974. The college opened in 1948 to help address the shortage of teachers in New Zealand caused by the 'baby boom' after WW2. It was New Zealand's only fully residential teachers' college and during its 27-year history, trained around 8500 teachers. The closure of the college in 1974 was the end of an era and nothing remains at the site to indicate its existence except for a memorial stone.[3]
Auckland University's School Of Engineering was established at the aerodrome in 1948, using old World War II military barracks and hangars. It remained there until 1969, when it moved to a much larger new building in Symonds Street in central Auckland, near the University's other faculties. While at Ardmore, the school offered only Civil, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineering degrees. After moving in 1969, it further offered Chemical & Material Engineering and Engineering Science degree course.[4]
The aerodrome was used for the NZ Grands Prix in the 1950s and 1960s before Pukekohe Park Raceway was completed. Bruce McLaren was a winner there, and the circuit hosted many famous drivers including Jack Brabham, Prince Bira, Stirling Moss and Reg Parnell.[5]
Ardmore covers 44.27 km2 (17.09 sq mi)[1] and had an estimated population of 1,490 as of June 2023,[2] with a population density of 34 people per km2.
Ardmore had a population of 1,386 at the 2018 New Zealand census, an increase of 90 people (6.9%) since the 2013 census, and an increase of 195 people (16.4%) since the 2006 census. There were 426 households, comprising 714 males and 669 females, giving a sex ratio of 1.07 males per female. The median age was 41.1 years (compared with 37.4 years nationally), with 273 people (19.7%) aged under 15 years, 249 (18.0%) aged 15 to 29, 669 (48.3%) aged 30 to 64, and 192 (13.9%) aged 65 or older.
Ethnicities were 84.0% European/Pākehā, 18.6% Māori, 5.2% Pacific peoples, 7.6% Asian, and 2.4% other ethnicities. People may identify with more than one ethnicity.
The percentage of people born overseas was 18.4, compared with 27.1% nationally.
Although some people chose not to answer the census's question about religious affiliation, 47.8% had no religion, 39.2% were Christian, 1.1% had Māori religious beliefs, 0.9% were Hindu, 0.4% were Muslim, 0.9% were Buddhist and 3.0% had other religions.
Of those at least 15 years old, 210 (18.9%) people had a bachelor's or higher degree, and 162 (14.6%) people had no formal qualifications. The median income was $40,700, compared with $31,800 nationally. 291 people (26.1%) earned over $70,000 compared to 17.2% nationally. The employment status of those at least 15 was that 633 (56.9%) people were employed full-time, 150 (13.5%) were part-time, and 45 (4.0%) were unemployed.[6]
Ardmore School is a coeducational full primary school (years 1–8) with a roll of 343 as of February 2024.[7][8]
Act III: Life and Death is the third studio album by American rock band The Dear Hunter, released on June 23, 2009. According to lead vocalist Casey Crescenzo, it is the third part of a six-act story,[3] following the original in 2006, Act I: The Lake South, the River North, and 2007's Act II: The Meaning of, and All Things Regarding Ms. Leading, and preceding Act IV: Rebirth in Reprise (2015). The album was produced by Casey Crescenzo and Andy Wildrick in the band's own studio in Providence, Rhode Island, with a number of musicians making guest appearances.[4]
As of July 1, 2009, the album had peaked on the Billboard 200 at #182 (the first time a Dear Hunter album ever cracked the top 200), #14 on the Billboard Top Heatseakers, and #31 on Top Independent Albums.[5]
All tracks are written by Casey CrescenzoThe band released a deluxe edition of the album in a DVD-sized case that contained an autographed poster, picture-postcards with the lyrics to each song, and a storybook of the band's previous full-length album Act II: The Meaning of, and All Things Regarding Ms. Leading, which was illustrated by artist Kent St. John. In addition, the album came with four bonus tracks. The deluxe edition was only available through preorder of the album while supplies lasted, but was also seen at the merchandise table during The Dear Hunter's tour with Kay Kay and His Weathered Underground and mewithoutYou.
The Dear Hunter, along with the help of artist Glenn Thomas, created an animated music video for their song "What It Means to Be Alone". Though the band still neglects to have an actual single, charting or otherwise, this is their second music video, the first being "The Church and the Dime" from their previous album.
Seat 12, also known as Operation Seat 12, was a disinformation campaign of communist propaganda during the Cold War to discredit the moral authority of the Vatican because of its outspoken anticommunism.[1][2][3] The existence of the plot was written in 2007 by Ion Mihai Pacepa, a general who headed the Romanian secret service before defecting to the West in 1978. Seat 12 was documented in the Mitrohkin Files and corroborated by the DIA Venona Project. [4]
According to Pacepa, in February 1960, Nikita Khrushchev authorized a covert operation to discredit the Vatican's moral authority in Western Europe with a campaign of disinformation due to its fervent anticommunism, Pope Pius XII being the prime target.[1][4][3] The motto of Seat 12 was "Dead men cannot defend themselves", since Pius died in 1958.[5] Pacepa states that General Ivan Agayants, chief of the KGB's disinformation department, created the outline for what was to become a play mischaracterizing the Pope as a Nazi sympathizer, The Deputy; that the purported research for the play consisted of forgeries;[6] that the research was done not by its author Rolf Hochhuth, but by KGB agents; and that the play's producer, Erwin Piscator, founder of the Proletarian Theater in Berlin who had sought asylum in the USSR during the war,[citation needed] was a devout Communist who had long established ties with the USSR.[4][3][7]
Pacepa states that the KGB employed Romanian spies to feign that Romania was preparing to reestablish diplomatic relations with the Holy See.[5] Under this ruse, Pacepa states he obtained entry into Vatican archives from the Church's head of secret discussions with the Warsaw Pact, Monsignor Agostino Casaroli.[5] Three communist spies in the guise of priests over two years secreted materials out of the archives for copying and transfer to the KGB.[5] "In fact," Pacepa reported, "no incriminating material against the pontiff ever turned up."[5] According to Pacepa, General Ivan Agayants, head of Soviet disinformation, informed him while in Bucharest in 1963 that the disinformation campaign had "materialised into a powerful play attacking Pope Pius XII", Agayants having authored the outline of The Deputy and overseen KGB's compilation of the "research" which incorporated documents Pacepa's agents had purloined from the Vatican.[5]
Writer and law professor Ronald Rychlak states that the American producer of Seat 12's play was also a communist; many of the press who lauded the play had deep connections to leftist or communist causes; a highly communist influenced periodical helped to guarantee The Deputy played on Broadway; and even early reviews had communist links.[8] Pacepa also relates that in 1974 Yuri Andropov admitted that had Soviets known in 1963 what they knew in 1974 (newly released information that Hitler was hostile to and plotted against Pius XII) they would never have gone after him.[4][3]
According to Rychlak, a declassified British intelligence memorandum, dated January 10, 1969, surmises that Hochhuth may have played a knowing role in spreading communist propaganda, rather than having been a dupe, saying he "might perhaps be an ‘intellectual agent', writing either on behalf of the East Germans or the Soviets" and the British agents declined to "discount the possibility of long-term efforts by the communists to foster Hochhuth's allegations until they become legend."[9] The memorandum continued: "whether Hochhuth is motivated only by the urge to write historical plays, to rehabilitate the Germans or is up to some more sinister game is difficult to determine at this stage. But the Russians are certainly reaping some of the benefit."[10]
Rychlak concludes that Hochhuth might not have been a knowing actor in the propaganda but was a "perfect candidate to be an unknowing dupe."[9] Rychlak writes "his ideology was not far removed from Marxism. He also admitted that he was, at least at times, anticlerical. He was particularly opposed to priestly celibacy."[9]
Referring to Pacepa's account, German historian Michael F. Feldkamp writes that "Pacepa's report is wholly credible. It fits like a missing piece in the puzzle of communist propaganda and disinformation aimed at discrediting the Catholic Church and its Pontiff."[11][12] English historian, Michael Burleigh, concurring with Feldkamp, states: "Soviet attempts to smear Pius had actually commenced as soon as the Red Army crossed into Catholic Poland", noting that the Soviets "hired a militantly anti-religious propagandist, Mikhail Markovich Sheinmann" – "Hochhuth's play ... drew heavily upon Sheinmann's lies and falsehoods."[2]
Pacepa's story has not been corroborated; the national German paper Frankfurter Allgemeine stated in 2007 that "Hochhuth did not require any KGB assistance for his one-sided presentation of history".[13]
Citations
Bibliography
Moment exotique, also known as Danse excentrique, is a short concert piece for solo piano by the Russian pianist Vladimir Horowitz.[1]
The piece is thought to have been composed in either 1920 or 1921,[1] before Horowitz left Russia. He originally composed the piece for his brother's 18th birthday party.[2] Horowitz first recorded the piece on a piano roll for Welte-Mignon in 1926[3] and later went on to record it for RCA Records in 1930, this time as an audio recording.
The piece is written in a cakewalk style.  It is a colorful and cheery piece lasting around two and a half minutes.[1]
Beckfoot is a hamlet in the civil parish of Holme St Cuthbert in Cumbria, England. It is located on the B5300 coast road, three miles south of Silloth-on-Solway and two miles north of the village of Mawbray. The county town of Carlisle is twenty-five miles away to the east.
The name "Beckfoot" is derived from the Old Norse bekkr-futr, meaning "the mouth of a stream".[1] Beck is a local word in Cumbrian dialect for a stream. Such a beck empties into the Solway Firth at the southern end of the hamlet,[2] and it is this watercourse which gives the settlement its name. There are two known recorded variant spellings: Beck and Beckfoote.
The area around Beckfoot was fortified during Roman times, as a series of milefortlets were constructed to guard the coast beyond the western end of Hadrian's Wall. The remains of milefortlets 14 and 15 are located nearby.[3] In 2010 a broken pottery vessel containing 308 Roman coins was discovered by a local archaeologist using a metal detector.
During the 14th century, a castle was built at Wolsty, approximately one-and-a-half miles to the north, to guard the vulnerable Holmcultram Abbey at Abbeytown from raids across the Solway Firth. The castle had been demolished by the year 1700, and not much remains today, but an archaeological survey was carried out in July 2013.[4]
In the 16th century, shifting sands and severe storms on the Solway Firth saw many houses in the hamlet destroyed or severely damaged. Many people lost their homes, and it was this event which prompted the Lord and Steward of Holme Culterham to construct the town of New Mawbray, today known as Newtown, three-quarters of a mile inland from Beckfoot.[5] Also during this era, Scots continued to raid this section of the Solway coast. A system called the "seawake" - a night watch along the coast - was created, and residents of coastal communities including Beckfoot would have participated in guarding against such raids.[1]
A Quaker meeting house was built in Beckfoot in the year 1745, exactly 100 years before the parish church at Holme St. Cuthbert was built.[6] A mill and dam were built at the end of the eighteenth century to aid in local wool production, but the mill was not a financial success and closed a few years later. In 1925, Beckfoot had two council houses constructed - the only council houses in the whole parish.[7]
There are two attractions in the vicinity - Bank Mill Nursery and Visitor Centre, which includes a garden, nature reserve, play area, and restaurant,[8] and the Gincase near Newtown, a farm park with a gift shop and tea room.[9]
A bus service runs between Silloth-on-Solway and Maryport and stops approximately once every two hours in either direction.[10]
Beckfoot is within the Solway Coast Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty,[11] and its sand dunes, together with those at Mawbray and Wolsty, form a Site of Special Scientific Interest.
Purwokerto (Javanese: ꦥꦸꦂꦮꦏꦼꦂꦠ, romanized: Purwakerta) is a large but non-autonomous town on the island of Java, Indonesia. It is the coordinating centre of local government (Bakorwil 3) and the largest city in western Central Java. Currently, Purwokerto is the capital of Banyumas Regency, Central Java province. The population of the four districts which comprise the town at the 2010 census was 233,951[2] and 229,271 at the 2020 census;[3] the official estimate as of mid-2022 was 231,765.[1] The City is considered to be the most comfortable city in Indonesia, as it is the favourite place for pensioners to live after they have finished working.
Purwokerto is located in the middle of Java Island within the province of Central Java, near the base of Mount Slamet, the second-tallest mountain in Java. The average elevation is 183,87 metres, maximum 286 m, and minimum 71 metres above sea level. The city is bisected by the Kali Kranji (Kranji River). It lies near two major east–west roads, Sudirman Street and Gatot Subroto Street.  Its geographic location is 7°26′S 109°14′E﻿ / ﻿7.433°S 109.233°E﻿ / -7.433; 109.233.
Purwokerto has a tropical rainforest climate (Af) with moderate rainfall in July and August and heavy to very heavy rainfall in the remaining months.
The history of Purwokerto as the capital of the Banyumas Regency is intertwined with the history of Banyumas itself.  Banyumas was established in 1582 by Raden Joko Kahiman. He later became the first regent, Duke Mrapat.
Following the unintentional killing of Adipati Wirasaba VI in District Lowano (now Purworejo), Sultan Hadiwijaya summoned Joko Kahiman, the dead man's son in law. The Sultan made Kahiman "Adipati Wirasaba VII" (Regent of Wirasaba) and divided the Wirasaba regency into four parts. The Banjar region was given to Kyai Ngabei Wirayuda. The Meden territory was given to Kyai Ngabei Wirakusuma. The Wirasaba territory given to Kyai Ngabei Wargawijaya and the Kejawar territory was controlled by the Sultan himself. There, he cleared the Mangli forest and named the area "Banyumas".[5] At that time, the capital of the Kejawar territory was in Banyumas. After the flood of 1861, the capital was moved to Purwokerto, which was located about 18 km further north.
Purwokerto is used to be administratively equal to an "Administrative City" and now has a special status as the capital of Banyumas Regency. And it also used to have a Major (Walikotatif). Purwokerto is now divided into four administrative districts (kecamatan), each headed by a "Camat".
The administrative municipalities of Purwokerto (and part of Banyumas Regency) follow:
If Purwokerto again became an autonomous city, now that it has 231,765 people, it would cover 38.58 km2 with 11 municipalities (kecamatan).
Purwokerto's nearest airport is the Tunggul Wulung airport in Cilacap township, approximately 40 km south of Purwokerto. Tunggul Wulung has direct flights (three times per week) from Halim Perdana Kusuma airport in Jakarta.  The travel time from Jakarta to Cilacap is 45 minutes. Lately in 2016 Wirasaba (PWL) is planned for commercial flight service. The distance to the town is about 15 km only. Many news sources state that this airport will be developed for commercial flight, while even Garuda Indonesia and Susi Air will be serving this route to Jakarta. Additionally, there is a new bridge that has been built by two regencies between Banyumas and Purbalingga, called Linggamas which supports it.
Purwokerto is a hub city connecting Cirebon to Jogjakarta. The train is one of the main modes of transport to Purwokerto. All classes of the ticket, from economy to first class, are available for trips on trains from Jakarta, Bandung, Yogyakarta, and Surabaya. The total journey from Jakarta is 6 hrs (first class) and 10 hrs (economy class). Soon in 2016, is being built double track between Purwokerto and Kroya for about 25 km the distance. It will be easier also faster the trip between two station above. Double track from Jakarta to Purwokerto now is fully serviced and it takes 5 hours only for single trip. There are 2 new destinations serviced by new train: 
Intercity buses connect Purwokerto to other cities on the island. The Purwokerto bus station is the third largest terminal in Central Java province after Terboyo (Semarang) and Tirtonadi (Surakarta). The Bulupitu's bus station services the passengers across the mainland to Bali/Lombok in the eastern also Banda Aceh (Sumatera) in the western. In 2016 will planned BRT system (Bus Rapid Transportation) serving between Purbalingga to Purwokerto. For more facilities now is built "Traffic Park" or Taman Lalu Lintas Bulupitu whereas becomes an education park for the public. This could be one of a little amount of additional bus station facilities in Indonesia. There is the first in Indonesia "Sleeper bus" serving Purbalingga/Purwokerto to Jakarta, which is a new facility where the beds are available inside and look just like a hotel's facility.
Cruising the roads in Purwokerto is challenging. The roads are not quite wide enough as ones in bigger cities, and there are still Becaks (rickshaw-like tricycles) using the same roads as motor vehicles. We will hardly ever see traffic jam here, but we will frequently bump into another car cruising the road very slowly or motorcyclists who ride in the middle of the road with low speed. It will need quite an effort for people coming from big city to adjust life on the road of Purwokerto. It is advisable to use bicycles instead.
Purwokerto's central public square, Indonesian: Alun-alun, has six banyan trees: a tree at each corner, and two in the center. The townsfolk often spend their leisure time in the shady square and it is a common place for children to play. Vendors in the square sell children's toys and local foods.
On one side is the regional government building, Kabupaten. On the west side of the square is the Masjid Baitus Salam Mosque of Purwokerto. To the east is the old cemetery on Ragasemangsang Road.
Located in the city center, Bank BRI Museum was built and dedicated to the Bank BRI's founder, R.A. Wiriatmadja. Formerly named as De Purwakertosche Hulp-en Spaar Bank der Inlandsche Bestuur Ambtenaren in 1895, now Bank BRI is one of the largest bank in the nation, as well as the oldest in the nation. Displays a lot of collections of coin and money from the VOC era until the present time.
Baturraden, located 15 km north of Purwokerto is an area of the typical highland country at the foot of the Gunung Slamet volcano. It is a popular site for local tourism, with a children's playground, hot springs, trekking and camping. There are two natural hot springs at Baturraden, namely Pancuran Telu and Pancuran Pitu. The campground is called Wana Wisata.[6] Some hotels, villas and budget hotels are available in Baturraden.
There are many hotels available in Purwokerto and Baturraden as follow :
And many more
Recently Purwokerto has a little shopping center in amount, but now is being built a new mall located in the southern of Alun-alun called RSM (Rita Super Mall) integrated with Swisbell Hotels **** and also soon is planned built PCC (Purwokerto City Center) where the location is ex Stasiun Timur (PJKA) a mix-used complex ; mall, hotel, shop houses.
It can be described for several years later list of shopping centers (with the established) follows:
Department store and supermarket located on Jalan Jendral Sudirman Purwokerto inside there is An Arcade (Mr Games), bookstore, supermarket and Department store
Department store and supermarkets located on Jalan Jendral Suprapto Kebondalem Purwokerto Inside there are supermarkets, bookstores and Department store
This Grocery store is located on Jalan Jendral Sudirman, Purwokerto, and is Located close to Rita Supermall Purwokerto (RSM). This shop only has one floor considering that this Store only has a supermarket.
The Purwokerto local food includes mendoan (fermented soy bean covered in wheat flour dough and deep fried), ranjem, nopia and mino (small nopia), tempeh keripik and many different kinds of chips. Gethuk goreng, made of cassava and Javanese sugar is also available. It is sold by various shops under various names. Also, in the morning, one may find a serabi seller on almost every corner of town.
One Purwokerto delicacy is soto. It is also made in the nearby town of Sokaraja. Purwokerto soto is made from the chicken while that from Sokaraja contains beef. Both are different from other sotos in Indonesia, because they are mixed with a spicy nut sambal. The most famous soto sokaraja seller in Sokaraja is "Soto Kecik", near the Buddha's monastery.
Beside the local traditional culinary mentioned above, there are many franchise's restaurants; fast food especially has opened their branch here such as : KFC (now 2 outlets with 1 is Drive Thru).
Bunto's Cafe locates in Jalan Sudirman where the international fast food with fully local taste is available too.
at the Soeharso street /GOR, there are so many restaurants and recently become as one of culinary destination in town beside at Jalan Bunyamin/Baturaden
Purwokerto is a center for medical care for the southern part of the Central Java Province. There are both public and private hospitals for both general and specialist care. They include:
The main state-run hospital is RSUD Margono Soekarjo County Hospital which is located on the eastern edge of Purwokerto. Its name is commonly shortened to "RS Margono Soekarjo". It was named after the first surgeon in Indonesia. The surgeon was born in Purwokerto and his grave is found in Pesarean Kebutuh, Sokaraja Kulon.
Since 2010, Purwokerto has also been known as the place offering plastic surgery services. It is believed that many celebrities come secretly to Purwokerto for plastic surgery instead of having it done in Jakarta. The plastic surgery services are provided by RSUD Margono Soekarjo County Hospital and RS Geriatri hospital.
Jenderal Soedirman University is the main university in Purwokerto. It is located on the town's northern outskirts and south of the town for Faculty of Medicine.[7] There are many universities and academies in Purwokerto which serve the southern part of central Java.
They include:
The Casio World Open (カシオワールドオープンゴルフトーナメント, Kashio wārudo ōpun gorufu tōnamento) is a professional golf tournament on the Japan Golf Tour. Founded in 1981, it is played in November and is one of the richest tournaments in Japan, attracting some of the leading international golfers. It was held at the Ibusuki Golf Club, Kaimon Course in Ibusuki, Kagoshima from 1981 to 2004. In 2005, it moved to the Kochi Kuroshio Country Club in Geisei, Kōchi.
The event is organized by Casio, Kuroshio Kanko Kaihatsu and TV Kochi.
Donal O'Shea (born 2001) is an Irish hurler. At club level, he plays with Salthill-Knocknacarra, while he is also a member of the Galway senior hurling team. He usually lines out as a forward.
O'Shea first played hurling at juvenile and underage levels with the Salthill-Knocknacarra club, before eventually progressing to the adult level. He enjoyed his first success in 2021 when Salthill claimed the Galway JHC title.[1] O'Shea later claimed a Conancht JCHC title after a defeat of Easkey in the final.[2] He has also lined out with University College Dublin in the Fitzgibbon Cup.[3]
O'Shea first appeared at inter-county level with Galway as full-forward on the minor team that won the All-Ireland MHC title in 2018.[4] As well as being Galway's top scorer, he was also named GAA Minor Star Hurler of the Year.[5] O'Shea spent two years with the under-20 team and was again the team's top scorer when Galway were beaten by Cork in the 2021 All-Ireland under-20 final.[6]
O'Shea made his first appearance for the senior team during the 2023 Walsh Cup.[7]
His father, Eamon O'Shea, played hurling with Tipperary and Dublin and also served as Tipperary manager.[8]
Honey Lake (also Vienna) is an unincorporated community located in Racine and Walworth Counties, Wisconsin, United States.[1]
The Walworth County portion is located within the town of Spring Prairie, and the Racine County portion is part of the village of Rochester.

This article about a location in Walworth County, Wisconsin is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article about a location in Racine County, Wisconsin is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
John Morin Scott (1730 – September 14, 1784) was a lawyer, military officer, and statesman before, during and after the American Revolution.
Scott was born in Manhattan in 1730.[1]  He was the only child of John Scott (1702–1733), a Manhattan merchant, and Marian (née Morin) Scott (1703–1755).  His father died when he was only three years old, and his mother never remarried.[2]
His father was the eldest of nine children born to Captain John Scott (1678–1740), who emigrated to New York City, where he received the rights of citizenship in 1702.[3]   His paternal grandfather was the second son of Sir John Scott, 1st Baronet of Ancrum, Roxburghshire in Scotland.  His maternal grandfather was Huguenot settler, Pierre Morin.[4]
He attended public school in New York before attending Yale College in New Haven, graduating in 1746 at the age of 16.[4]
After graduation from Yale and further study, he was admitted to the New York bar association in 1752 and practiced law in Manhattan, where he also served as an alderman from 1756 to 1761.  In 1752, along with William Livingston and William Smith, he founded a weekly journal, the Independent Reflector.[5]  From 1756 to 1761, he served as a New York alderman.[1] In 1768, he was elected to membership in the American Philosophical Society.[6]
Scott was a founding member of the Sons of Liberty, and in 1775, he was a member of the New York General Committee.[1]  During the Revolutionary War, John Scott was a member of the New York Provincial Congress (from 1775 to 1777), while also serving as a brigadier general under George Washington in the New York and New Jersey campaign. He commanded the 1st New York (Independent) Battalion, the 2nd New York (County) Battalion, and several New York Militia Regiments. He fought with Putnam's division at the Battle of Brooklyn on August 27, 1776, and was the last of Washington's generals to argue against surrendering Manhattan to the British—possibly due to his large landholdings there, including what is now Times Square and New York City's Theater District.[4]
Twenty days later, on September 16, 1776, Scott led the same battalions and regiments at the Battle of Harlem Heights, an American victory. On October 28, 1776, his forces participated in the Battle of White Plains.[4]
In 1776, Scott was a member of the State of New York committee to author a state constitution. After the war, Scott regained his Manhattan estate and, in 1777, was a candidate for the first governorship of New York State, losing to George Clinton. Scott was elected Associate Justice of the State Supreme Court of New York in 1777, but declined.[2][7]
Instead, he became New York's first Secretary of State, a State Senator (representing the Southern District from 1777 to 1782), and served as an active delegate to the Continental Congress in 1780 and 1782.[1]
Scott was married to Helena Rutgers (1730–1798),[3] a daughter of Petrus Rutgers and Helena (née Hooglant) Rutgers.[8] Together, they were the parents of:[4]
Scott died in New York City on September 14, 1784, and his body was interred at the north entrance of Trinity Church, New York.[1] His inscribed slab is visible from the corner of Wall Street and Broadway. An equestrian statue is erected in his honor in Upper Manhattan.
Djibo Airport (IATA: XDJ, ICAO: DFCJ) is an airport serving the village of Djibo in the Soum Province, part of the Sahel Region of Burkina Faso.

This article about an airport in Burkina Faso is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Licze [ˈlit͡ʂɛ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kwidzyn, within Kwidzyn County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland.[1] It lies approximately 10 kilometres (6 mi) east of Kwidzyn and 76 km (47 mi) south of the regional capital Gdańsk.
During World War II, the German Stalag XX-B prisoner-of-war camp was located in the village for several weeks in December 1939–January 1940, before it was relocated to Wielbark near Malbork.[2]

This Kwidzyn County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Tariq Mohammad Mir has served as a career diplomat in the Pakistan Foreign Service. He served as Ambassador in Sri Lanka,[1] Iraq and Head of Mission in Iran in 1978, 1980, and 1981. He began his career in the Pakistan Army and rose to the rank of Brigadier. He  later transferred into the civil service.
He obtained his early education from the Prince of Wales Royal Indian Military College.  He attended the Staff College at Camberley in the United Kingdom, and  specialized training in Diplomacy at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts. He is also a graduate of the Infantry School, Ft. Benning and the  Command and  General Staff College, Ft. Leavenworth, USA.
He hails from a well known judicial family of Kasur in Punjab. His grandfather Khan Bahadur Moula Baksh retired as a District and sessions judge. The late Khan Bahadur had an impressive collection of law books that he donated to various institutions in Lahore that are in use even today. His father Mr. S.M. Mir BA Cantab Bar-at-Law also served as District and Sessions Judge and later was appointed as Prime Minister in the princely state of Tonk.  The Late S.M. Mir introduced important reforms in the state and helped under privileged students to avail higher studies by providing state scholarships.
During his army career in 1965 he commanded a battalion in Bagh sector Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) and in 1971 during the Indo-Pak war he commanded an infantry brigade and received many commendations for setting a personal example of leading his troops and for his exemplary conduct in securing the strategic objectives entrusted to him (2)
Tariq Mir served as head of the Pakistani mission during the historic Iranian revolution. Through his efforts Pakistan became the first country to recognize the new regime on February 11, 1979, reciprocating the Iranian gesture of being the first country to recognize the newly established state of Pakistan in 1947.
During the first Gulf War while Ambassador in Iraq he helped in the successful and safe evacuation of thousands of Pakistanis displaced from Kuwait. While Ambassador in Sri Lanka he was able to greatly strengthen bilateral as well as trade ties. During his tenure a series of high level exchange of visits took place. Both the President and Prime Minister of Sri Lanka visited Pakistan while the President of Pakistan paid a state visit to Sri Lanka. As the head of delegation at the Colombo Plan countries meeting in Australia he was able to successfully advocate the need for greater north south technical collaboration.
Until recently he has been associated with the Pakistan Foreign Service Academy where he has taught courses to Pakistani and international diplomats.
For meritorious services rendered to his country, he has been awarded the Tamgha-e-Pakistan and the Sitara-e-Imtiaz. The Government of Pahlavi Iran conferred upon him the award of Order of Homayoun.
2. Hilal Magazine December 2014 www.ISPR.gov.pk
Sanctuary Nature Foundation is an Indian nonprofit foundation that was founded in 2015 building on the work of Sanctuary Asia, a wildlife magazine that was launched in 1981 by Bittu Sahgal.[1] Its network of conservationists, naturalists, scientists, writers and photographers run various projects in environmental policy, advocacy, science, on-ground support, wildlife habitat management and more. The foundation also holds annual awards to honour grassroots conservationists and wildlife photographers.
Inspired by Fateh Singh Rathore, who urged him to educate the Indian citizen on the importance of wildlife conservation, Bittu Sahgal founded the magazine Sanctuary Asia in October 1981.[2] Its first edition was published the same month. In 1984, a second magazine was launched to reach a younger audience, Sanctuary Cub.
At the same time, Sanctuary Films was established and two wildlife conservation serials aired on Doordarshan, India’s national television network.[3]
In the early 1990s, the Sanctuary team began expanding their work beyond the publication to conservation projects, advocacy, research, habitat management and more.
The organisation began to reach out to larger numbers through the syndication of feature articles by diverse authors such as Ruskin Bond,[4] Vijaya Venkat,[5] Dilip D’Souza[6] and more in the mainstream press. Under the banner of Sanctuary Features, the organisation put forward alternate views on nature, wildlife, conservation and development issues while also covering related subjects like travel, science and health.
Sanctuary Photo Library,[7][8] the stock photo agency, was created in 1990 as a repository of natural history images. It has a fully computerised database of wildlife and landscape photographs.
In 1999, Sanctuary launched Kids for Tigers, an environmental education programme that was introduced in schools across India. Kids for Tigers was developed to increase awareness amongst children about biodiversity and the urgent need to save tigers and forests in order to secure our own future.[9]
In the year 2000, the Sanctuary Wildlife Awards were instituted to honour men and women working to protect our wilderness areas and photographers who used their skills as a conservation tool.[10]
It was in 2015 that Sanctuary Asia established Sanctuary Nature Foundation, the nonprofit foundation that now publishes the magazines and several other publications and also manages various conservation projects.
Sanctuary Asia, edited by Bittu Sahgal, aims to educate the adult public about the importance of protecting the environment, covers relevant news on wildlife and conservation. Its first edition was published in October 1981. In 1984, the foundation began publishing a second magazine, Sanctuary Cub. It is currently edited by Tara Sahgal. In 2017, the Cub magazine bagged the Runner Up position in the Kids Stop Press Award for the best newspaper/magazine for children.[11]
Aside from the magazines, Sanctuary Nature Foundation publishes a variety of reading material today, including coffee table books, wildlife guides and national park guides.
Sanctuary’s coffee table books are published in two series and three standalone:
Currently, Sanctuary has published guides to 9 Indian parks and sanctuaries.
Sanctuary also published The Ecologist Asia,[19][20] an Indian edition of the UK journal The Ecologist, founded by Edward Goldsmith. The Ecologist Asia, whose co-editors were Bittu Sahgal, Vandana Shiva, Claude Alvares and Smitu Kothari, was dedicated to disseminating environmental and developmental news relevant to the region.
Sanctuary’s team is currently working on the following projects.
Kids for Tigers, founded in 2000, is an educational outreach programme that seeks to instill in children a love and respect for nature through trails, workshops, fests and camps. Going way beyond conservation education, the programme is dedicated to ‘leaving kids with a better planet and leaving the planet with better kids’. Kids for Tigers, founded in the year 2000, has reached over a million children and was certified by the Limca Book of Records for having created the world's largest ‘Save The Tiger’ scroll.[21]
Launched in 2017, Mud on Boots seeks to empower grassroots conservationists in India. These conservationists often come from humble backgrounds, and find themselves limited in their ability to expand and fund their work because of the challenges posed by language barriers, geographical remoteness and restricted access to technology and education. These individuals are identified for Sanctuary by credible conservation leaders.[22]
Over a two-year period, the selected Project Leaders receive a monetary grant and other strategic support from Sanctuary.
Launched in 2017, Community Owned Community Operated Nature (COCOON) Conservancies are rewilding initiatives outside India’s Protective Area Network. COCOON seeks to improve the lives of Indian farmers who live near forest land by rewilding their failed farms back to biodiverse forest status, and helping them find new sources of income, like ecotourism.[23] COCOON’s strategy is based on the idea that local communities must be the primary beneficiaries of biodiversity renewal, rather than being displaced, so that relationships between people and parks can improve. COCOON turns land owned by these communities into eco lodges and wildlife viewing spots. The money from the tourism goes to the farmers who still own the land. Additionally, their families are also provided education and medical care.[24]
MV Stephanie Marie is a passenger ferry owned and operated by Aleson Shipping Lines.[1] She's the former MV Marima III[2][3] and currently acquired by Aleson Shipping since 1998.
MV Stephanie Marie is also dubbed as MV Stephanie Marie 1 following the acquisition of MV Stephanie Marie 2
Kalydon (Greek: Καλυδών) is an uninhabited island area near to and belonging to Elounda, Crete, Greece. It is made up of the island of Spinalonga, the Peninsula Spinalonga and the island of Kolokythas along with other smaller islets. The term Kalydon is often applied to each of the Spinalonga islands as their alternate historic name that was further re-established in modern Greek naming, whilst Spinalonga is still the preferred naming in the public.
In 1834, a population of 81 Muslim families is attested in the area. After the 1866 revolution a lot of other Cretan Muslims from other areas moved in. During the Cretan revolt of 1878, only Spinalonga and the fortress at Ierapetra were not taken by the Christian Cretan insurgents. In 1881 the 1112 Muslims formed their own community. When the island Spinalonga became a leper colony in 1903, the last Turks left the place.


This Crete location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Little Rock Pond is a small lake northwest of Big Moose in Herkimer County, New York. It drains south via an unnamed creek that flows into Twitchell Creek.
The Berlin S-Bahn (German: [ˈɛs baːn]) is a rapid transit railway system in and around Berlin, the capital city of Germany. It has been in operation under this name since December 1930, having been previously called the special tariff area Berliner Stadt-, Ring- und Vorortbahnen (Berlin city, orbital, and suburban railways).[1] It complements the Berlin U-Bahn and is the link to many outer-Berlin areas, such as Berlin Brandenburg Airport. As such, the Berlin S-Bahn blends elements of a commuter rail service and a rapid transit system.
In its first decades of operation, the trains were steam-drawn; even after the electrification of large parts of the network, some lines remained under steam. Today, the term S-Bahn is used in Berlin only for those lines and trains with third-rail electrical power transmission and the special Berlin S-Bahn loading gauge. The third unique technical feature of the Berlin S-Bahn, the automated mechanical train control (works very similar to the train stop at New York City Subway), is being phased out and replaced by a communications-based train control system specific to the Berlin S-Bahn.
In other parts of Germany and other German-speaking countries, other trains are designated S-Bahn without those Berlin-specific features. The Hamburg S-Bahn is the only other system using third-rail electrification.
Today, the Berlin S-Bahn is no longer defined as this special tariff area of the national railway company, but is instead just one specific means of transportation, defined by its special technical characteristics, in an area-wide tariff administered by a public transport authority. The Berlin S-Bahn is now an integral part of the Verkehrsverbund Berlin-Brandenburg, the regional tariff zone for all kinds of public transit in and around Berlin and the federal state (Bundesland) of Brandenburg.
The brand name "S-Bahn" chosen in 1930 mirrored U-Bahn, which had become the official brand name for the Berlin city-owned rapid transit lines begun under the name of Berliner Hoch- und Untergrundbahnen (Berlin elevated and underground lines), where the word of mouth had abbreviated "Untergrundbahn" to "U-Bahn", in parallel to "U-Boot" formed from "Unterseeboot" ("undersea boat" – submarine). Ironically, S-Bahn's S is not easy to name, it may stand for Schnell-Bahn (rapid rail) or Stadt-Bahn (urban rail; not to be confused with Stadtbahn, a railway line through Berlin on which some Berlin S-Bahn lines run, or Stadtbahn, the German term for light rail).
Services on the Berlin S-Bahn have been provided by the Prussian or German national railway company of the respective time, which means the Deutsche Reichsbahn-Gesellschaft after the First World War, the Deutsche Reichsbahn (East Germany) (in both East and West Berlin) until 1993 (except West Berlin from 1984 to 1994, the BVG period) and Deutsche Bahn after its incorporation in 1994.
The Berlin S-Bahn consists today of 16 lines serving 166 stations, and runs over a total route length of 332 kilometres (206 mi).[1] The S-Bahn carried 478.1 million passengers in 2018.[2] It is integrated with the mostly underground U-Bahn to form the backbone of Berlin's rapid transport system. Unlike the U-Bahn, the S-Bahn crosses Berlin city limits into the surrounding state of Brandenburg, e.g. to Potsdam.
Although the S- and U-Bahn are part of a unified fare system, they have different operators. The S-Bahn is operated by S-Bahn Berlin GmbH, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bahn, whereas the U-Bahn is run by Berliner Verkehrsbetriebe (BVG), the main public transit company for the city of Berlin.
The S-Bahn routes all feed into one of three core lines: a central, elevated east–west line (the Stadtbahn), a central, mostly underground north–south line (the Nord-Süd Tunnel), and a circular line (the Ringbahn). Outside the Ringbahn, suburban routes radiate in all directions.
Lines S1, S2, S25, and S26 are north–south lines that use the north–south tunnel as their midsection. They were equally distributed into Oranienburg, Bernau, and Hennigsdorf in the north, and Teltow Stadt, Lichtenrade, and Wannsee.
Lines S3, S5, S7, S9, and S75 are east–west lines using the Stadtbahn cross-city railway. The western termini are located at Potsdam and Spandau, although the S5 only runs as far as Westkreuz and the S75 to Warschauer Straße. The eastern termini are Erkner, Strausberg Nord, Ahrensfelde, and Wartenberg. The S9 uses a connector curve (Südkurve) at Ostkreuz to switch from the Stadtbahn to the south-eastern leg of the Ringbahn. Another curve, the Nordkurve to the North-eastern Ringbahn, was originally served by the S86 line, but it was demolished in preparation of the rebuilding of Ostkreuz station and was not rebuilt afterwards. Both connector curves were heavily used in the time of the Berlin Wall, as trains coming from the North-Eastern routes couldn't use the West Berlin North–south route and the Southern leg of the pre- and post-Wall Ringbahn was in West Berlin.
Lines S41 and S42 continuously circle around the Ringbahn, the former clockwise, the latter anti-clockwise. Lines S45, S46, and S47 link destinations in the southeast with the southern section of the Ringbahn via the tangential link from the Görlitzer Bahn  to the Ring via Köllnische Heide.
Lines S8 and S85 are north–south lines using the eastern section of the Ringbahn between Bornholmer Straße and Treptower Park via Ostkreuz, using the Görlitzer Bahn in the South.
Formerly, there existed four curves at Westkreuz and Ostkreuz  allowing to go to a northern ring (Nordring) and to a southern ring (Südring) using central tracks of Stadbahn. Nordring and Südring are common terms, but never scheduled routes as separate rings. One curve of Südring at Westkreuz left over for internal use, the other one is mentioned connector at Ostkreuz.
Generally speaking, the first digit of a route number denotes the main route or a group of routes.  Thus, S25 is a branch of S2, while S41, S42, S45, S46, and S47 are all Ringbahn routes that share some of the same route. So S41, S42, S45, S46, and S47 are together S4. However, the S4 does not exist as an independent entity.
Since 9 January 1984, all the West Berlin S-Bahn routes are labelled with an "S" followed by a number.  This system had been in use with other West German S-Bahn systems (such as Hamburg) for years. On 2 June 1991 this was extended to the East Berlin lines as well. Internally, the Berlin S-Bahn uses Zuggruppen (literally groups of trains) which normally run every twenty minutes (S41/S42 are an exception to this as their Zuggruppen run every 10 minutes). Some lines, e.g. the S85, are made up of only one Zuggruppe, while others, like S5, are actually multiple Zuggruppen combined. Some Zuggruppen do not run the entire line and terminate at intermediate stops. Zuggruppen are called by a "Funkname" (radio designator), which is derived from the German spelling alphabet. Some Funknamen are not used in regular service, such as Heinrich, Baikal, Jaguar, Gustav, or Saale (being used for special soccer service trains, usually running for fans under the line S3 between Charlottenburg and Olympiastadion.).
PI Panther
PII Pastor
WI Wespe
BI Bussard
SI Saale
(special service)
AI Adler
RI Reiher
EI Elster
EII Eiche (defunct)
EIII Erna
(late night service)
OI Olaf
TI Tapir
Stations in brackets are serviced at certain times only (Monday through Friday during offpeak in the case of S45 and during peak in the case of S8 and S85). S85 only runs Monday through Friday.
Also, not every train reaches the nominal terminus of a line. For example, every other train on S1 runs only to Frohnau, five stops before Oranienburg, and the last stop on S3 towards Erkner which is reached by every train is Friedrichshagen. Similarly, some northbound S2 trains terminate at Gesundbrunnen, and most S5 trains run only to Strausberg or even Mahlsdorf, rendering Strausberg Nord the least served stop on the whole network.
On 31 August 2009 a few semi-permanent changes to the line routes were applied. Because of renovations to Ostkreuz station, including dismantling the tracks connecting the Stadtbahn and the Ringbahn –
Because of the progress achieved in the Ostkreuz renovation in 2012, the –
On 21 August 2017, with the completion of the Ostkreuz renovation, and on 10 December 2017, with the completion of the connection between the Stadtbahn and Ringbahn at Ostkreuz, the following changes were made:
The S-Bahn generally operates between 4am and 1am Monday to Friday, between 5am and 1am on Saturdays and between 6:30am and 1am on Sundays during normal daytime service. However, there is a comprehensive night-time service on most lines between 1am and 5am on Saturdays and 01:00 and 06:30 on Sundays, which means that most stations enjoy a continuous service between Friday morning and Sunday evening. One exception to this is the section of the S8 between Blankenburg and Hohen Neuendorf which sees no service in these hours. Most other lines operate without route changes, but some are curtailed or extended during nighttime. Particularly, the S1, S2, S25, S3, S41, S42, S5, S7 are unchanged, and the S45 and S85 have no nighttime service. Westbound lines S46, S47, S75, and northbound S9 terminate at stations Südkreuz, Schöneweide, Lichtenberg, and Treptower Park, respectively.
With individual sections dating from the 1870s, the S-Bahn was formed in time as the network of suburban commuter railways running into Berlin, then interconnected by the circular railway connecting the various terminal railway stations, and in 1882 enhanced by the east–west cross-city line (called the  "Stadtbahn", "city railway"). The forming of a distinct identity for this network began with the establishment of a special tariff for the area which was then called the "Berliner Stadt-, Ring- und Vorortbahnen", and which differed from the normal railway tariff. While the regular railway tariff was based on multiplying the distance covered with a fixed price per kilometer, the special tariff for this Berlin tariff zone was based on a graduated tariff based on the number of stations touched during the travel.[3]
The core of this network, that is the cross-city ("Stadtbahn") East–west line and the circular Ringbahn, and several suburban branches were converted from steam operation to a third-rail electric railway in the latter half of the 1920s. The Wannsee railway, the suburban line with the highest number of passengers, was electrified in 1932–33. A number of suburban trains remained steam-hauled, even after the Second World War.
After building the east–west cross-city line connecting western suburban lines, which until then terminated at Charlottenburg station with eastern suburban lines which had terminated at Frankfurter Bahnhof (later Schlesischer Bahnhof), the logical next step was a north–south cross-city line connecting the northern suburban lines terminating at Stettiner Bahnhof with the southern suburban lines terminating at the subsidiary stations of the Berlin Potsdamer Bahnhof. The first ideas for this project emerged only 10 years after the completion of the east–west cross-city line, with several concrete proposals resulting from a 1909 competition held by the Berlin city administration. Another concrete proposal, already very close to the final realisation, was put forward in 1926 by Professor Jenicke of Breslau university.
Many sections of the S-Bahn were closed during the war, both through enemy action and flooding of the Nord-Süd-Bahn tunnel on 2 May 1945 during the final Battle of Berlin. The exact number of casualties is not known, but up to 200 people are presumed to have perished, since the tunnel was used as a public shelter and also served to house military wounded in trains on underground sidings. Service through the tunnel commenced again in 1947.
After hostilities ceased in 1945, Berlin was given special status as a "Four-Sector City," surrounded by the Soviet Occupation Zone, which later became the German Democratic Republic (GDR).  The Allies had decided that S-Bahn service in the western sectors of Berlin should continue to be provided by the Reichsbahn (DR), which was by now the provider of railway services in East Germany. (Rail services in West Germany proper were provided by the new Deutsche Bundesbahn.)
Before the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961, the Berlin S-Bahn had grown to about 335 kilometres. On the 13 August 1961, it was the biggest turning point in the operation and network for the S-Bahn.
As relations between East and West began to sour with the coming of the Cold War, it had become the victim of the hostilities. Although services continued operating through all occupation sectors, checkpoints were constructed on the borders with East Berlin and on-board "customs checks" were carried out on trains. From 1958 onward, some S-Bahn trains ran non-stop through the western sectors from stations in East Berlin to stations on outlying sections in East Germany so as to avoid the need for such controls. East German government employees were then forbidden to use the S-Bahn since it travelled through West Berlin.
The S-Bahn has also been operated in two separate subnets of the Deutsche Reichsbahn. In East Berlin, the S-Bahn retained a transport share of approximately 35 percent, the mode of transport with the highest passenger share. In the 1970s and 1980s the route network continued to grow. In particular, the new housing estates were connected to the grid in the northeast of the city (Marzahn and Hohenschönhausen).
The construction of the Berlin Wall led to West Berlin calling for the unions and politicians to boycott the S-Bahn. Subsequently, passenger numbers fell.
However, the Berlin S-Bahn strike brought the S-Bahn to the attention of the public, and aroused the desire for West Berlin to manage its section of the S-Bahn itself. In 1983 negotiations of representatives of the Senate, the SNB and the Deutsche Reichsbahn took place. In December 1983, these were concluded with Allied consent to the agreement between the Deutsche Reichsbahn and the Berlin Senate for the transfer of operating rights of the S-Bahn in the area of West Berlin. The BVG received the oldest carriages from the DR; but the BVG was eager to quickly get to modern standards for a subway. Therefore, soon new S-Bahn trains were purchased on their behalf, which are still in use on the Berlin S-Bahn network as the 480 series.
Even before the Wall fell, there were efforts to substantial re-commissioning of the S-Bahn network in West Berlin.
After the Berlin Wall came down in November 1989, the first broken links were re-established, with Friedrichstraße on 1 July 1990, as the first. The BVG and DR jointly marketed the services soon after the reunification. Administratively, the divided S-Bahn networks remained separate in this time of momentous changes, encompassing German reunification and reunification of Berlin into a single city, although the dividing line was no longer the former Berlin Wall. DR and BVG (of the whole of reunified Berlin from 1 January 1992, after absorbing BVB of East Berlin) operated individual lines end to end, both into the other party's territories. For example, S2 was all BVG even after it was extended northward and southward into Brandenburg/former East German territory. The main east–west route (Stadtbahn) was a joint operation. Individual trains were operated by either BVG or DR end-to-end on the same tracks. This arrangement ended on 1 January 1994, with the creation of Deutsche Bahn due to the merger between DR and the former West Germany's Deutsche Bundesbahn. All S-Bahn operations in Berlin were transferred to the newly formed S-Bahn Berlin GmbH as a subsidiary of Deutsche Bahn, and the BVG withdrew from running S-Bahn services.
Technically, a number of projects followed in the steps of re-establishing broken links in order to restore the former S-Bahn network to its 1961 status after 1990, especially the Ringbahn. In December 1997 the connection between Neukölln and Treptower Park via Sonnenallee was reopened, enabling S4 trains to run 75% of the whole ring between Schönhauser Allee and Jungfernheide. On 16 June 2002, the section Gesundbrunnen – Westhafen also reopened, re-establishing the Ringbahn operations.
MTR Corporation, National Express Group, Berlin S-Bahn GmbH and RATP Development had tendered for their procurement process, and were soon followed by train manufacturer Stadler Rail for their operations from 2018 to 2033. The specific contracts are:
Ringbahn –
Stadtbahn –
Nord-Süd Bahn –
There were several depots for Berlin S-Bahn. They are Schöneweide (opened in December 1927), Friedrichsfelde (opened on 1 March 1903), Grünau (opened on 1 April 1910), Wannsee (opened on 15 May 1933), Erkner (opened in 1928) and Oranienburg (opened in 1925).
At Grünau, construction began in 1916 and was completed in 1928. They serviced the following routes:
The connection to Spandau West became in the following years the traditional train course, which was maintained after 1945 until the building of the wall. In the 1980s, this depot made 51 daily trains for the connections using Class 485 trains.
Closed depots include:
This vehicle, DB Class 488.0 (Panorama train) is a unique piece. The train consists of two railcars and a sidecar in between. It was created by conversion from old cars of the ET / EB 167, the later series 477/877. While the car body is largely a new build, many technical components of end-of-life vehicles were taken over in 1997–99. This train is not used in normal regular service. The S-Bahn offered city tours with it until 2009, and it could be rented privately. The train is equipped with a modern multimedia system so that the announcements via headphones can be followed in multiple languages. As with this car the windows extend into the roof for a better field of vision, it is called a panorama train (previously known as a panoramic suburban train).
Otherwise museum and tradition trains were primarily used – Class 165. The Viertel train Class ET/EB 167s were being built in 1938 and was converted in 1991.
In 1988, Deutsche Reichsbahn presented plans for the transformation of Ostkreuz station. The long postponed renovation of the station began in 2007.
With nine lines (four on the Stadtbahn and five on the Ringbahn), Ostkreuz is one of the busiest stations on the network.[4]
With the progress of construction work on 31 August 2009, the southern connection and platform A were decommissioned. This route had to be realigned as a result. The construction plans envisaged that the connection would be restored by 2014. After its completion, traffic will again be able to be run from the southern Ringbahn onto the Stadtbahn.
In October 2009, the new Regionalbahn station on the Ringbahn was sufficiently complete for S-Bahn trains on the Ringbahn to use it temporarily. Demolition of the Ringbahn platform could then start and the new platform, including a concourse, could be built. This was put into operation on 16 April 2012, after a 16-day track closure.[5]
In December 2018 all the S-Bahn tracks at Ostkreuz finished construction and were opened for regular passenger use.
Rehabilitation work at Grünauer Kreuz on the Berlin–Görlitz railway began on 12 July 2006.[6][7] In 2010 and 2011, rebuilt stations were put into operation in several stages at Baumschulenweg and Adlershof and the bridges over the Britz Canal and the Teltow Canal were replaced. During the reconstruction, the platform at Adlershof was relocated directly above Rudower Chaussee (street).[8][9]
Other major construction projects are planned along the route:
In preparation for the opening of Berlin-Brandenburg Airport in Schönefeld in the south of Berlin, S-Bahn lines S45 and S9 were set to be extended from the then terminus at Berlin-Schoenefeld Airport in a long curve to the new terminal. Directly below the terminal, Berlin Brandenburg, a station has been built with six platform tracks. Four through platform tracks are provided for long-distance services. Two tracks are operated by S-Bahn services on the approach from the west. In early July 2008, the first 185-metre-long section of the station was completed so that the terminal could be built. On 24 July 2009, the airport company transferred the completed shell of the airport railway station and the first part of the tunnel to DB.[10] The new line includes the stations of Waßmannsdorf and Berlin Brandenburg Airport and has a length of approximately 7.8 kilometres.[10][11] The construction cost was specified as €636 million. This amount also included the cost of construction of long-distance tracks.[10]
In 2020 the Berlin Brandenburg Airport was opened with a 9-year delay. With the opening of the airport, the S-Bahn service also began operation, which meant that the lines S45 and S9 were extended as was planned more than 10 years ago.[12]

The second Nord-Süd Bahn will link the northern ring to the Hauptbahnhof, Potsdamer Platz station and the Wannsee Railway to the southern ring. Today's plans are almost identical to plans submitted to the 1907–1910 Greater Berlin competition by Albert Sprickerhof.[14] Since then, there have been a number of alternatives proposals for such a route. A similar line was included in the plans for Welthauptstadt Germania ("World Capital Germania") in the 1930s.[15]
The line will be built in sections. In 2005, the zoning approval for the northern part of the route from the Ringbahn to Hauptbahnhof was adopted.[16] In October 2009 a loan agreement was entered into between the Senate and Deutsche Bahn for the first section. This provided for total costs of €226.5 million. On 27 November 2009, the preparatory work for this phase of construction started at the Hauptbahnhof. For the underground excavation in Invalidenstrasse, diaphragm walls were built into the ground and the trench in between was covered with a reinforced concrete lid.[17][18][19]
This stage involves the construction of a curve to the Westhafen and an eastern connection to Wedding inside the northern Ringbahn. Structural preparation for these junctions to these lines had already been made during the construction of the North–South mainline in 2006. From there, the existing line will run in a southerly direction (in the tunnel layer) to the Berlin Hauptbahnhof east of the North–South mainline. The realization of an intermediate station under the working name of Perleberger Brücke (as a two-level station in a V-shape) is provided as an option. It was proposed to complete this 1,600-meter-long section by 2016.[20] After construction delays caused by the inflow of groundwater, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the global supply chain crisis, the opening is planned for 2024 at the earliest.[21][22]
The construction of the second section of the S21 is to begin no earlier than 2018 and is expected to be completed in 2023. The new S-Bahn line will run in a tunnel from near the Hauptbahnhof past the Reichstag to Potsdamer Platz. It will run next to the existing Nord-Süd Tunnel to Brandenburg Gate and separate from it to run to Potsdamer Platz. The first north-south S-Bahn tunnel was designed in 1939 with room for an additional two tracks at Potsdamer Platz and to its south for the new line. The cost of the S-Bahn line (phases 1 and 2) has been estimated at €317 million (2009 prices).[17] The benefits of additional expenditure to the east of the Reichstag are still under investigation. This would increase the cost to about €330 million.
There are currently no dates set for the other phases of construction to the southern Ringbahn. It has so far only been defined in the Berlin land use plan.[23]
Since reunification, there have been suggestions that lines that have not been used since 1961 or 1980 should be rebuilt and connected to the network by some new lines. Many of these plans have changed several times since then or have been abandoned.
Following a decision of the Berlin House of Representatives, the goal is essentially to restore the S-Bahn network to its extent in 1961. This was stated in an agreement between Deutsche Bahn, the Federal Ministry of Transport and the Senate on 4 November 1993.[24] The network was to be restored by 2002. On this basis, the plans were included in the land use plan of 1995. In a study of the transport development by the then Department for Transport and Commerce in 1995, a plan was published for a network. Only the Jungfernheide–Stresow, Spandau–Staaken and Zehlendorf–Düppel sections, which had existed until 1980, were not incorporated in these plans. This political commitment is now only symbolic as some projects are now aimed at points beyond the original destinations or to miss them entirely. Budgetary difficulties, changing traffic flows and alternative development projects using Regionalbahn trains have led to the cancellation or postponement of projects that had already been developed.
Since the foundation of the Berlin S-Bahn, a number of accidents have occurred.
Ariadne auf Naxos (Ariadne on Naxos) is a duodrama in one act by Czech composer Georg Benda with a German libretto by Johann Christian Brandes [de]. It was commissioned by Abel Seyler, whose theatrical company arrived in Gotha in 1774.[1] The opera's first performance was at the Schloss Friedenstein, Gotha, on 27 January 1775.[2]
Ariadne auf Naxos belonged to the genre known as German melodrama,[3] an attempt is to merge spoken dialogue with music, making it the only form of opera with no singing. Brandes wrote the text of Ariadne auf Naxos for his wife Charlotte, a famous singer and actress of the day.  She played the role of Ariadne in the premiere.  The basis for Brandes' libretto was a cantata by Heinrich Wilhelm von Gerstenberg. However, Tim Ashley in his review of a 2005 performance of the work, suggests that Brandes may have been influenced by Virgil's Aeneid, "Theseus is a man of destiny and conscience; Ariadne has no Bacchus to redeem her and instead commits suicide after seeing Theseus sail away".[4]
Mozart attended a production of Ariadne auf Naxos and became a great admirer of Benda's compositions. In 1778 he wrote to his father expressing the desire to compose a duodrama entitled Semiramide on the model of Benda's Ariadne auf Naxos and Medea. He believed at the time that melodrama was the way to solve the problems of operatic recitative. However, Mozart never got around to creating a duodrama. He did create a miniature melodrama within his unfinished operetta, Zaide, written in 1780.[5] Other composers who admired and were influenced by Benda's melodramas include Carl Maria von Weber and Ludwig van Beethoven.[4]
Although not performed often, Benda's Ariadne has remained in the performance repertoire since it first premiered and a number of recordings of the work have been made. Most recently, the work was performed in August 2005 at the Edinburgh International Festival in a double bill with Mozart's Zaide. The cast included Dagmar Manzel as Ariadne and Rainer Trost as Theseus. Charles Mackerras conducted the English National Opera orchestra.[4]
Ariadne is sleeping on the shore of the island of Naxos, as Theseus, her lover, looks down on her resting form. Theseus feels there is a destiny placed upon him and feels that he can not stay tied to Ariadne and fulfill that destiny. He slips away from Ariadne on his ship, leaving her stranded alone on Naxos. Ariadne awakes to find herself deserted by the faithless Theseus. Ariadne despairs and commits suicide.
The Lord Ganapati Temple is situated in the city of Tasgaon in Sangli district in the Indian state of Maharashtra. Most of the Ganapati idols have a left-sided trunk, while this temple's idols' trunk bends towards the right.[1] The Ganapati idol with the trunk curved towards the right is said to be 'active (jagrut)’. This Ganapati is regarded as a living idol, ready to bless communities with good luck, wisdom, prosperity and happiness. The idol is embellished with solid gold, weighing 125 kilograms (276 lb).
Parasuram Bhau Patwardhan (Raje of Tasgaon Sansthan) was Sar-Senapati of Nanasaheb Peshwa, who had established this Tasgaon Sansthan. Raje Parashuram had fought more than 100 wars against the Tipu Sultan in South India. At that time Tipu Sultan was impressed by the temples of southern India and its culture of worship.
The construction of a temple at Ganapati was begun in 1779 by Parasuram Bhau Patwardhan and finished in 1799 by his son Appa Patwardhan. These construction was made by Hindu- Wadar caste peoples from karnataka. Its architecture resembles South Indian temple construction. It consists of an image−chamber and a hall (Mandapa) of plain but finely worked stone. The image−chamber is 9.44m x 8.83m and the hall 13.71m x 10.36m. The image−chamber has a spire 10.36m, flanked by our smaller ones 2.43 meters shorter making a grand composition. Mandapa has a flat roof of carved Stone slabs. The hall consists of a nave with three aisles made by two rows of pillars with a 3.04m space between them. At the hall's entrance are two shrines of the bull Nandi and the Garuda Guard 6.40m high including the pinnacles (shikhara). The entrance gateway formed by a masonry arch surmounted by a tower of the form known as the Gopura The Gopur is a large and lofty pinnacle. Gopura at Gadag in Karnataka State, India is comparable. It is seven-storied, gradually tapering to a ridge at the top. The lowest storey measures 11.27m, the whole is 29.08 m high, and the kalas (pinnacles) and curved arms are 0.17 m higher. Gopura is carved into images of gods and goddesses.[2]
The Grand celebration occurs in the city on next day of Bhadrapat Chaturthi when thousands of people gather to celebrate this auspicious occasion. This festival is cultural and religious event helping the people to unit together. This Ganpati stays for one and half-day. The Procession starts in afternoon for immersion of Ganpati. The 30 feet 'Ratha' (chariot) used to decorate specially for this occasion. Ratha is pulled by the Ganpati devotees up to stream where they do immersion of Ganpati. This tradition has continued since 1785. And the first reference to given for these ratha was that caste should be announced to Apparaje Patvardhan, because they was constructed the temple of Sansthan's Ganpati.  First  the Ratha was made of teak wood which was too heavy. Due to its accident in one year, new iron Ratha came into picture.
Sandra Scalzi (born 17 March 1986[2]) is an Australian association footballer who played for Australian W-League team Adelaide United. She scored the first hat-trick in the W-league against Newcastle Jets on 31 October 2008.[3][4] She is related to fellow footballer Isabella Scalzi.[5]

This biographical article related to women's association football in Australia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article related to a soccer forward from Australia is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
RAF Jui was a military seaplane station operated from 1941 to 1945 by the Royal Air Force during World War II at Jui,[1] a promontory of land between creeks running south from the Sierra Leone River, about 20 km east of Freetown in Sierra Leone.  
It was the base for two squadrons of Consolidated Catalina seaplanes: one operated by  No. 270 Squadron of the Royal Air Force and another by  No. 490 Squadron of the Royal New Zealand Air Force. No. 270 Squadron was reformed at Jui on 12th November 1942 and operated there until July 1943, when it moved to RAF Apapa near Lagos in Nigeria.  No. 490 Squadron RNZAF was formed at Jui on 28th March 1943 and, like No. 270 Squadron, flew operational sorties over the Atlantic searching for German submarines and shipping until the end of World War II.  No. 204 Squadron of the RAF was based at RAF Jui from 28 January to 1 April 1944 flying Short Sunderland seaplanes. Several other squadrons had detachments at RAF Jui including No. 95 Squadron, No. 230 Squadron, No. 265 Squadron and No. 270 Squadron.[1]
The Commanding Officer from 1941 until September 1944 was Group Captain Theodore Quintus Studd, DFC.[2]
RAF Jui closed on 1st August 1945 when No. 490 Squadron was disbanded.
Paranoia: A True Story is the eleventh mixtape by American rapper Dave East. It was released on August 18, 2017, by Def Jam Recordings, Mass Appeal Records and From The Dirt Records.[3] The mixtape lead single, "Perfect", was released on July 28, 2017.[4] The mixtape features guest appearances from Nas, Jeezy, Wiz Khalifa, French Montana and Chris Brown.[5]
Dave East announced the album's release date on August 2, 2017 via Instagram.[6] Nearly a week later, he unveiled the album's official cover art.[7] Just two days before the album's release, the tracklist was revealed.[8]
Credits adapted from iTunes and Tidal.[3][9]
Notes
Paul Weir (born 16 September 1967) is a Scottish former professional boxer who competed from 1992 to 2000. He was a world champion in two weight classes,[1] having held the WBO mini-flyweight title in 1993 and the WBO junior-flyweight title from 1994 to 1995.
Weir turned professional in 1992 and captured the vacant WBO mini-flyweight title in his sixth professional fight, with a TKO win over Fernando Martínez in 1993. He defended the belt once against Lindi Memani and relinquished the belt before moving up in weight to challenge Josue Camacho for the WBO junior-flyweight title. He lost the bout, but Camacho vacated the belt and he defeated Paul Oulden for the vacant WBO junior-flyweight title in 1994. He defended the belt once against Ric Magramo before losing it to Jacob Matlala after Weir was unable to continue due to a deep cut from an accidental headbutt in the fifth round. They rematched the following year and Weir lost via TKO in the tenth.[2]
In 2010, Weir returned to boxing as a trainer.[3] Weir's fighters include Craig Docherty, Derry Mathews, and John Simpson.
In 2022 he received the BJJ Black Belt at Entropy Jiu Jitsu from Professor Thabet Al Taher.[4]

This biographical article related to boxing in Scotland is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Kilkis Archaeological Museum is located in the city of Kilkis in Central Macedonia, Greece. It opened in 1972, its purpose being to collect finds handed in by private individuals and unearthed during excavations in the Kilkis area. The exhibits are arranged in the rooms in chronological order, they date from the Neolithic to the Roman period, and they come from excavations in the settlement of Kolchida, the cemetery at Palaio Gynaikokastro, the archaeological site at Filyria, and other parts of the Kilkis Prefecture.
In the entrance hall are the prehistoric finds from the excavations at Tsaousitsa and Axiochori, and occasional finds (stone statuettes and amulets) from Pedino, Gallikos, and Axioupoli. The first hall has Iron Age finds, the most important of which are the funerary urns, the bronze jewellery, and the iron weapons from the cemetery at Palaio Gynaikokastro. In the second hall are sculptures, inscriptions, and grave stelai of the Classical, Hellenistic, and Roman periods. The most important exhibits are the Kouros from Evropos, which represents a young man and dates to the 6th century BC, and the four statues from the heroon at Palatiano (2nd century AD). The room also contains clay figurines, pots, and some outstanding jewelry.
40°59′51″N 22°52′40″E﻿ / ﻿40.9976°N 22.8777°E﻿ / 40.9976; 22.8777
Alan Tissières (born 31 August 1991) is a Swiss ski mountaineer.
Tissières was born in Praz-de-Fort.
This biographical article related to ski mountaineering is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This biographical article relating to a Swiss sportsperson is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Darwin Fabián Torres Alonso[1] (born 16 February 1991)[2] is a Uruguayan professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for Liga Nacional club Municipal.
This biographical article about a football defender from Uruguay born in the 1990s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The Young and Evil is a 2008 short film directed by Julian Breece, in which a sexually promiscuous teenager actively pursues unprotected sex in order to catch HIV.[1]  The title is inspired by the 1933 book by Charles Henri Ford and Parker Tyler.[2]
The Young and Evil was selected for the 2009 Palm Springs International Festival of Short Films,[1] Frameline 32,[3] the Sundance Film Festival[4] and the Urbanworld Film Festival.[2]
The film was a nominee for the 2008 Iris Prize.[5]
This short film–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
A quasi in rem legal action (Latin,  "as if against a thing") is a  legal action based on property rights of a person absent from the jurisdiction.   In the American legal system the state can assert power over an individual simply based on the fact that this individual has property (bank account, debt, share of stock, land) in the state.  Quasi in rem jurisdiction does not have much function in the United States any longer. However, in very specific cases, quasi in rem jurisdiction can still be effective.
A quasi in rem action is commonly used when jurisdiction over the defendant is unobtainable due to their absence from the state.   Any judgment will affect only the property seized, as in personam jurisdiction is unobtainable.[1]
Of note, in a quasi in rem case the court may lack  personal jurisdiction  over the  defendant,  but it has jurisdiction over the defendant's property.   The property could be  seized  to obtain a claim against the defendant.[1]   A judgment based on quasi in rem jurisdiction generally affects rights to the property only between the persons involved and does not "bind the entire world" as does a judgment based on "jurisdiction in rem".
The claim does not have to be related to the property seized, but the person must have minimum contacts with the forum state in order for jurisdiction to be proper.[2]
On June 24, 1977, in the case of Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186, the Supreme Court of the United States decided that the requirement that the circumstances giving rise to jurisdiction comply with the notion of "fair play and substantial justice" should apply to the quasi in rem jurisdiction questions.   The Supreme Court significantly diminished the utility of the quasi in rem jurisdiction because if the case meets the minimum contacts,  fair play and substantial justice tests,  the action can be brought under the in personam jurisdiction.  Quasi in rem jurisdiction,  however,  can still be an effective option to bring the lawsuit to a particular court because quasi in rem jurisdiction allows litigants to overcome limitations of the long-arm statute of a particular state.
There are two types of quasi in rem jurisdiction: 1) quasi in rem type 1 (QIM1); and 2) quasi in rem type 2 (QIM2). In QIM1, a plaintiff sues to secure a pre-existing claim in the subject property. For example, actions that seek quiet title against another's claim to the property. In QIM2, the plaintiff has no pre-existing claim in the subject property. That is, the property rights of the owner are not in dispute, but rather the plaintiff seeks the property so that they may satisfy a separate claim. For example, a person who walks across another's real property and falls into an open pit might have no pre-existing claim regarding the property, but may initiate a QIM2 action to redress his injury.
Eleanor Miller (died December 19, 1943) was a teacher and state legislator in California. A Republican, she was the fifth woman elected to the California legislature.[1][2] She was elected in 1922, 1924, 1926, 1928, 1930, 1932, 1934, 1936, and 1940.[1] She founded the Eleanor Miller School of Expression. She wrote the memoir When Memory Calls (1936) about her life, including her travels to Europe and the Near East. The book includes pen drawings by Lewis D. Johnson.[3]
She was born in Industry, Illinois.[4] She lived in Pasadena from 1911 until her death. She lived at 251 South Oakland Avenue.[5]

This article about a California politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Sonic Liberation Front Meets Sunny Murray is an album by the Philadelphia-based ensemble Sonic Liberation Front and drummer Sunny Murray. Three tracks on the album were recorded live in 2002, while the remaining tracks were recorded at Rittenhouse Recording Studio in 2008. The album was released in 2010 by the High Two label.[1][2]
In a review for AllMusic, Phil Freeman wrote: "Though he's one of the most powerful drummers in jazz, free or otherwise, Murray never truly takes over the music; he's a guest in this house, and he acts accordingly, supporting the group rather than turning its compositions into platforms for drum solos." He stated that the music reinforces the idea "that so-called 'free' jazz has rules every bit as strict as those governing bebop or big-band swing."[3]
DownBeat reviewer Bill Meyer praised "Knowledge of the Sun," writing: "cornetist Todd Margasak and saxophonist Terry Lawson's mournful unisons seem to drift over the slowly undulating percussive figures like a rain cloud over an arboreal canopy." However, he noted: "this CD represents neither party at its best."[2]
Writing for All About Jazz, Mark Corroto suggested that "the purpose here is the pulse and consciousness-raising properties of the vibrations emitted," and commented: "Perhaps we could call them a West African/Cuban/AACM jam band that's the child of Albert Ayler and Sun Ra."[5]
Katharina Rapp (born 1948) is a German artist.
Katharina Rapp was born in war-torn southern Germany. After completing her high school education, she moved to Paris to study at the Sorbonne, then to London where she met her husband. She later moved to Switzerland, where she had two children, and to Scotland, where she had her third child. She then moved to Australia, where she still works as an artist today.
Her dominant medium is the oil painting, with over-the-top and humorous characterisation in vivid colours. Stylistically, she has been likened to the Dutch painter Kees van Dongen.
In mathematics and computing, universal hashing (in a randomized algorithm or data structure) refers to selecting a hash function at random from a family of hash functions with a certain mathematical property (see definition below). This guarantees a low number of collisions in expectation, even if the data is chosen by an adversary. Many universal families are known (for hashing integers, vectors, strings), and their evaluation is often very efficient. Universal hashing has numerous uses in computer science, for example in implementations of hash tables, randomized algorithms, and cryptography.
Assume we want to map keys from some universe 



U


{\displaystyle U}

 into 



m


{\displaystyle m}

 bins (labelled 



[
m
]
=
{
0
,
…
,
m
−
1
}


{\displaystyle [m]=\{0,\dots ,m-1\}}

). The algorithm will have to handle some data set 



S
⊆
U


{\displaystyle S\subseteq U}

 of 




|

S

|

=
n


{\displaystyle |S|=n}

 keys, which is not known in advance. Usually, the goal of hashing is to obtain a low number of collisions (keys from 



S


{\displaystyle S}

 that land in the same bin). A deterministic hash function cannot offer any guarantee in an adversarial setting if 




|

U

|

>
m
⋅
n


{\displaystyle |U|>m\cdot n}

, since the adversary may choose 



S


{\displaystyle S}

 to be precisely the preimage of a bin. This means that all data keys land in the same bin, making hashing useless. Furthermore, a deterministic hash function does not allow for rehashing: sometimes the input data turns out to be bad for the hash function (e.g. there are too many collisions), so one would like to change the hash function.
The solution to these problems is to pick a function randomly from a family of hash functions. A family of functions 



H
=
{
h
:
U
→
[
m
]
}


{\displaystyle H=\{h:U\to [m]\}}

 is called a universal family if, 



∀
x
,
y
∈
U
,
 
x
≠
y
:
 
 

|

{
h
∈
H
:
h
(
x
)
=
h
(
y
)
}

|

≤




|

H

|


m




{\displaystyle \forall x,y\in U,~x\neq y:~~|\{h\in H:h(x)=h(y)\}|\leq {\frac {|H|}{m}}}

.
In other words, any two different keys of the universe collide with probability at most 



1

/

m


{\displaystyle 1/m}

 when the hash function 



h


{\displaystyle h}

 is drawn uniformly at random from 



H


{\displaystyle H}

. This is exactly the probability of collision we would expect if the hash function assigned truly random hash codes to every key. 
Sometimes, the definition is relaxed by a constant factor, only requiring collision probability 



O
(
1

/

m
)


{\displaystyle O(1/m)}

 rather than 



≤
1

/

m


{\displaystyle \leq 1/m}

. This concept was introduced by Carter and Wegman[1] in 1977, and has found numerous applications in computer science (see, for example[2]). 
If we have an upper bound of 



ϵ
<
1


{\displaystyle \epsilon <1}

 on the collision probability, we say that we have 



ϵ


{\displaystyle \epsilon }

-almost universality. So for example, a universal family has 



1

/

m


{\displaystyle 1/m}

-almost universality.
Many, but not all, universal families have the following stronger uniform difference property:
Note that the definition of universality is only concerned with whether 



h
(
x
)
−
h
(
y
)
=
0


{\displaystyle h(x)-h(y)=0}

, which counts collisions. The uniform difference property is stronger.
(Similarly, a universal family can be XOR universal if 



∀
x
,
y
∈
U
,
 
x
≠
y


{\displaystyle \forall x,y\in U,~x\neq y}

, the value 



h
(
x
)
⊕
h
(
y
)
 

mod

 


m


{\displaystyle h(x)\oplus h(y)~{\bmod {~}}m}

 is uniformly distributed in 



[
m
]


{\displaystyle [m]}

 where 



⊕


{\displaystyle \oplus }

 is the bitwise exclusive or operation. This is only possible if 



m


{\displaystyle m}

 is a power of two.)
An even stronger condition is pairwise independence: we have this property when  



∀
x
,
y
∈
U
,
 
x
≠
y


{\displaystyle \forall x,y\in U,~x\neq y}

 we have the probability that 



x
,
y


{\displaystyle x,y}

 will hash to any pair of hash values 




z

1


,

z

2




{\displaystyle z_{1},z_{2}}

 is as if they were perfectly random: 



P
(
h
(
x
)
=

z

1


∧
h
(
y
)
=

z

2


)
=
1

/


m

2




{\displaystyle P(h(x)=z_{1}\land h(y)=z_{2})=1/m^{2}}

. Pairwise independence is sometimes called strong universality.
Another property is uniformity. We say that a family is uniform if all hash values are equally likely: 



P
(
h
(
x
)
=
z
)
=
1

/

m


{\displaystyle P(h(x)=z)=1/m}

 for any hash value 



z


{\displaystyle z}

. Universality does not imply uniformity. However, strong  universality does imply uniformity.
Given a family with the uniform distance property, one can produce a pairwise independent or strongly universal hash family by adding a uniformly distributed random constant with values in 



[
m
]


{\displaystyle [m]}

 to the hash functions. (Similarly, if 



m


{\displaystyle m}

 is a power of two, we can achieve pairwise independence from an XOR universal hash family by doing an exclusive or with a uniformly distributed random constant.) Since a shift by a constant is sometimes irrelevant in applications (e.g. hash tables), a careful distinction between the uniform distance property and pairwise independent is sometimes not made.[3]
For some applications (such as hash tables), it is important for the least significant bits of the hash values to be also universal. When a family is strongly universal, this is guaranteed: if 



H


{\displaystyle H}

 is a strongly universal family with 



m
=

2

L




{\displaystyle m=2^{L}}

, then the family made of the functions 



h

mod


2


L
′







{\displaystyle h{\bmod {2^{L'}}}}

 for all 



h
∈
H


{\displaystyle h\in H}

 is also strongly universal for 




L
′

≤
L


{\displaystyle L'\leq L}

. Unfortunately, the same is not true of (merely) universal families. For example, the family made of the identity function 



h
(
x
)
=
x


{\displaystyle h(x)=x}

 is clearly universal, but the family made of the function 



h
(
x
)
=
x

mod


2


L
′







{\displaystyle h(x)=x{\bmod {2^{L'}}}}

 fails to be universal.
UMAC and Poly1305-AES and several other message authentication code algorithms are based on universal hashing.[4][5]
In such applications, the software chooses a new hash function for every message, based on a unique nonce for that message.
Several hash table implementations are based on universal hashing.
In such applications, typically the software chooses a new hash function only after it notices that "too many" keys have collided; until then, the same hash function continues to be used over and over.
(Some collision resolution schemes, such as dynamic perfect hashing, pick a new hash function every time there is a collision. Other collision resolution schemes, such as cuckoo hashing and 2-choice hashing, allow a number of collisions before picking a new hash function). A survey of fastest known universal and strongly universal hash functions for integers, vectors, and
strings is found in.[6]
For any fixed set 



S


{\displaystyle S}

 of 



n


{\displaystyle n}

 keys, using a universal family guarantees the following properties.
As the above guarantees hold for any fixed set 



S


{\displaystyle S}

, they hold if the data set is chosen by an adversary. However, the adversary has to make this choice before (or independent of) the algorithm's random choice of a hash function. If the adversary can observe the random choice of the algorithm, randomness serves no purpose, and the situation is the same as deterministic hashing.
The second and third guarantee are typically used in conjunction with rehashing. For instance, a randomized algorithm may be prepared to handle some 



O
(
n
)


{\displaystyle O(n)}

 number of collisions. If it observes too many collisions, it chooses another random 



h


{\displaystyle h}

 from the family and repeats. Universality guarantees that the number of repetitions is a geometric random variable.
Since any computer data can be represented as one or more machine words, one generally needs hash functions for three types of domains: machine words ("integers"); fixed-length vectors of machine words; and variable-length vectors ("strings").
This section refers to the case of hashing integers that fit in machines words; thus, operations like multiplication, addition, division, etc. are cheap machine-level instructions. Let the universe to be hashed be 



{
0
,
…
,

|

U

|

−
1
}


{\displaystyle \{0,\dots ,|U|-1\}}

.
The original proposal of Carter and Wegman[1] was to pick a prime 



p
≥

|

U

|



{\displaystyle p\geq |U|}

 and define
where 



a
,
b


{\displaystyle a,b}

 are randomly chosen integers modulo 



p


{\displaystyle p}

 with 



a
≠
0


{\displaystyle a\neq 0}

.  (This is a single iteration of a linear congruential generator.)
To see that 



H
=
{

h

a
,
b


}


{\displaystyle H=\{h_{a,b}\}}

 is a universal family, note that 



h
(
x
)
=
h
(
y
)


{\displaystyle h(x)=h(y)}

 only holds when
for some integer 



i


{\displaystyle i}

 between 



0


{\displaystyle 0}

 and 



(
p
−
1
)

/

m


{\displaystyle (p-1)/m}

. Since 



p
≥

|

U

|



{\displaystyle p\geq |U|}

, if 



x
≠
y


{\displaystyle x\neq y}

 their difference 



x
−
y


{\displaystyle x-y}

 is nonzero and has an inverse modulo 



p


{\displaystyle p}

. Solving for 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 yields
There are 



p
−
1


{\displaystyle p-1}

 possible choices for 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 (since 



a
=
0


{\displaystyle a=0}

 is excluded) and, varying 



i


{\displaystyle i}

 in the allowed range, 



⌊
(
p
−
1
)

/

m
⌋


{\displaystyle \lfloor (p-1)/m\rfloor }

 possible non-zero values for the right hand side. Thus the collision probability is
Another way to see 



H


{\displaystyle H}

 is a universal family is via the notion of statistical distance. Write the difference 



h
(
x
)
−
h
(
y
)


{\displaystyle h(x)-h(y)}

 as
Since 



x
−
y


{\displaystyle x-y}

 is nonzero and 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 is uniformly distributed in 



{
1
,
…
,
p
−
1
}


{\displaystyle \{1,\dots ,p-1\}}

, it follows that 



a
(
x
−
y
)


{\displaystyle a(x-y)}

 modulo 



p


{\displaystyle p}

 is also uniformly distributed in 



{
1
,
…
,
p
−
1
}


{\displaystyle \{1,\dots ,p-1\}}

. The distribution of 



(
h
(
x
)
−
h
(
y
)
)
 

mod

 


m


{\displaystyle (h(x)-h(y))~{\bmod {~}}m}

 is thus almost uniform, up to a difference in probability of 



±
1

/

p


{\displaystyle \pm 1/p}

 between the samples. As a result, the statistical distance to a uniform family is 



O
(
m

/

p
)


{\displaystyle O(m/p)}

, which becomes negligible when 



p
≫
m


{\displaystyle p\gg m}

.
The family of simpler hash functions
is only approximately universal: 



Pr
{

h

a


(
x
)
=

h

a


(
y
)
}
≤
2

/

m


{\displaystyle \Pr\{h_{a}(x)=h_{a}(y)\}\leq 2/m}

 for all 



x
≠
y


{\displaystyle x\neq y}

.[1]  Moreover, this analysis is nearly tight; Carter and Wegman [1] show that 



Pr
{

h

a


(
1
)
=

h

a


(
m
+
1
)
}
≥
2

/

(
m
−
1
)


{\displaystyle \Pr\{h_{a}(1)=h_{a}(m+1)\}\geq 2/(m-1)}

 whenever 



(
p
−
1
)
 

mod

 


m
=
1


{\displaystyle (p-1)~{\bmod {~}}m=1}

.
The state of the art for hashing integers is the multiply-shift scheme described by Dietzfelbinger et al. in 1997.[8] By avoiding modular arithmetic, this method is much easier to implement and also runs significantly faster in practice (usually by at least a factor of four[9]). The scheme assumes the number of bins is a power of two, 



m
=

2

M




{\displaystyle m=2^{M}}

. Let 



w


{\displaystyle w}

 be the number of bits in a machine word. Then the hash functions are parametrised over odd positive integers 



a
<

2

w




{\displaystyle a<2^{w}}

 (that fit in a word of 



w


{\displaystyle w}

 bits). To evaluate 




h

a


(
x
)


{\displaystyle h_{a}(x)}

, multiply 



x


{\displaystyle x}

 by 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 modulo 




2

w




{\displaystyle 2^{w}}

 and then keep the high order 



M


{\displaystyle M}

 bits as the hash code. In mathematical notation, this is
This scheme does not satisfy the uniform difference property and is only 



2

/

m


{\displaystyle 2/m}

-almost-universal; for any 



x
≠
y


{\displaystyle x\neq y}

, 



Pr
{

h

a


(
x
)
=

h

a


(
y
)
}
≤
2

/

m


{\displaystyle \Pr\{h_{a}(x)=h_{a}(y)\}\leq 2/m}

.
To understand the behavior of the hash function, 
notice that, if 



a
x


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle ax{\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 and 



a
y


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle ay{\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 have the same highest-order 'M' bits, then 



a
(
x
−
y
)


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle a(x-y){\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 has either all 1's or all 0's as its highest order M bits (depending on whether 



a
x


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle ax{\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 or 



a
y


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle ay{\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 is larger).
Assume that the least significant set bit of 



x
−
y


{\displaystyle x-y}

 appears on position 



w
−
c


{\displaystyle w-c}

. Since 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 is a random odd integer and odd integers have inverses in the ring 




Z


2

w






{\displaystyle Z_{2^{w}}}

, it follows that 



a
(
x
−
y
)


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle a(x-y){\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 will be uniformly distributed among 



w


{\displaystyle w}

-bit integers with the least significant set bit on position 



w
−
c


{\displaystyle w-c}

.  The probability that these bits are all 0's or all 1's is therefore at most 



2

/


2

M


=
2

/

m


{\displaystyle 2/2^{M}=2/m}

.
On the other hand, if 



c
<
M


{\displaystyle c<M}

, then higher-order M bits of 




a
(
x
−
y
)


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle a(x-y){\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 contain both 0's and 1's, so 
it is certain that 



h
(
x
)
≠
h
(
y
)


{\displaystyle h(x)\neq h(y)}

.  Finally, if 



c
=
M


{\displaystyle c=M}

 then bit 



w
−
M


{\displaystyle w-M}

 of 




a
(
x
−
y
)


mod

2



w




{\displaystyle a(x-y){\bmod {2}}^{w}}

 is 1 and 




h

a


(
x
)
=

h

a


(
y
)


{\displaystyle h_{a}(x)=h_{a}(y)}

 if and only if bits 



w
−
1
,
…
,
w
−
M
+
1


{\displaystyle w-1,\ldots ,w-M+1}

 are also 1, which happens with probability 



1

/


2

M
−
1


=
2

/

m


{\displaystyle 1/2^{M-1}=2/m}

.
This analysis is tight, as can be shown with the example 



x
=

2

w
−
M
−
2




{\displaystyle x=2^{w-M-2}}

 and 



y
=
3
x


{\displaystyle y=3x}

.
To obtain a truly 'universal' hash function, one can use the multiply-add-shift scheme that picks higher-order bits
where 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 is a random positive integer with 



a
<

2

2
w




{\displaystyle a<2^{2w}}

 and 



b


{\displaystyle b}

 is a random non-negative integer with 



b
<

2

2
w




{\displaystyle b<2^{2w}}

.
This requires doing arithmetic on 



2
w


{\displaystyle 2w}

-bit unsigned integers.
This version of multiply-shift is due to Dietzfelbinger, and was later analyzed more precisely by Woelfel.[10]
This section is concerned with hashing a fixed-length vector of machine words. Interpret the input as a vector 






x
¯



=
(

x

0


,
…
,

x

k
−
1


)


{\displaystyle {\bar {x}}=(x_{0},\dots ,x_{k-1})}

 of 



k


{\displaystyle k}

 machine words (integers of 



w


{\displaystyle w}

 bits each). If 



H


{\displaystyle H}

 is a universal family with the uniform difference property, the following family (dating back to Carter and Wegman[1]) also has the uniform difference property (and hence is universal):
If 



m


{\displaystyle m}

 is a power of two, one may replace summation by exclusive or.[11]
In practice, if double-precision arithmetic is available, this is instantiated with the multiply-shift hash family of hash functions.[12] Initialize the hash function with a vector 






a
¯



=
(

a

0


,
…
,

a

k
−
1


)


{\displaystyle {\bar {a}}=(a_{0},\dots ,a_{k-1})}

 of random odd integers on 



2
w


{\displaystyle 2w}

 bits each. Then if the number of bins is 



m
=

2

M




{\displaystyle m=2^{M}}

 for 



M
≤
w


{\displaystyle M\leq w}

:
It is possible to halve the number of multiplications, which roughly translates to a two-fold speed-up in practice.[11] Initialize the hash function with a vector 






a
¯



=
(

a

0


,
…
,

a

k
−
1


)


{\displaystyle {\bar {a}}=(a_{0},\dots ,a_{k-1})}

 of random odd integers on 



2
w


{\displaystyle 2w}

 bits each. The following hash family is universal:[13]
If double-precision operations are not available, one can interpret the input as a vector of half-words (



w

/

2


{\displaystyle w/2}

-bit integers). The algorithm will then use 



⌈
k

/

2
⌉


{\displaystyle \lceil k/2\rceil }

 multiplications, where 



k


{\displaystyle k}

 was the number of half-words in the vector. Thus, the algorithm runs at a "rate" of one multiplication per word of input.
The same scheme can also be used for hashing integers, by interpreting their bits as vectors of bytes. In this variant, the vector technique is known as tabulation hashing and it provides a practical alternative to multiplication-based universal hashing schemes.[14]
Strong universality at high speed is also possible.[15] Initialize the hash function with a vector 






a
¯



=
(

a

0


,
…
,

a

k


)


{\displaystyle {\bar {a}}=(a_{0},\dots ,a_{k})}

 of random  integers on 



2
w


{\displaystyle 2w}

 bits. Compute
The result is strongly universal on 



w


{\displaystyle w}

 bits. Experimentally, it was found to run at  0.2 CPU cycle per byte on recent Intel processors for 



w
=
32


{\displaystyle w=32}

.
This refers to hashing a variable-sized vector of machine words. If the length of the string can be bounded by a small number, it is best to use the vector solution from above (conceptually padding the vector with zeros up to the upper bound). The space required is the maximal length of the string, but the time to evaluate 



h
(
s
)


{\displaystyle h(s)}

 is just the length of 



s


{\displaystyle s}

. As long as zeroes are forbidden in the string, the zero-padding can be ignored when evaluating the hash function without affecting universality.[11] Note that if zeroes are allowed in the string, then it might be best to append a fictitious non-zero (e.g., 1) character to all strings prior to padding: this will ensure that universality is not affected.[15]
Now assume we want to hash 






x
¯



=
(

x

0


,
…
,

x

ℓ


)


{\displaystyle {\bar {x}}=(x_{0},\dots ,x_{\ell })}

, where a good bound on 



ℓ


{\displaystyle \ell }

 is not known a priori. A universal family proposed by [12] 
treats the string 



x


{\displaystyle x}

 as the coefficients of a polynomial modulo a large prime. If 




x

i


∈
[
u
]


{\displaystyle x_{i}\in [u]}

, let 



p
≥
max
{
u
,
m
}


{\displaystyle p\geq \max\{u,m\}}

 be a prime and define:
Using properties of modular arithmetic, above can be computed without producing large numbers for large strings as follows:[16]
This Rabin-Karp rolling hash is based on a linear congruential generator.[17]
Above algorithm is also known as Multiplicative hash function.[18] In practice, the mod operator and the parameter p can be avoided altogether by simply allowing integer to overflow because it is equivalent to mod (Max-Int-Value + 1) in many programming languages. Below table shows values chosen to initialize h and a for some of the popular implementations.
Consider two strings 






x
¯



,



y
¯





{\displaystyle {\bar {x}},{\bar {y}}}

 and let 



ℓ


{\displaystyle \ell }

 be length of the longer one; for the analysis, the shorter string is conceptually padded with zeros up to length 



ℓ


{\displaystyle \ell }

. A collision before applying 




h


i
n
t





{\displaystyle h_{\mathrm {int} }}

 implies that 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 is a root of the polynomial with coefficients 






x
¯



−



y
¯





{\displaystyle {\bar {x}}-{\bar {y}}}

. This polynomial has at most 



ℓ


{\displaystyle \ell }

 roots modulo 



p


{\displaystyle p}

, so the collision probability is at most 



ℓ

/

p


{\displaystyle \ell /p}

. The probability of collision through the random 




h


i
n
t





{\displaystyle h_{\mathrm {int} }}

 brings the total collision probability to 





1
m


+


ℓ
p




{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{m}}+{\frac {\ell }{p}}}

. Thus, if the prime 



p


{\displaystyle p}

 is sufficiently large compared to the length of strings hashed, the family is very close to universal (in statistical distance).
Other universal families of hash functions used to hash unknown-length strings to fixed-length hash values include the Rabin fingerprint and the Buzhash.
To mitigate the computational penalty of modular arithmetic, three tricks are used in practice:[11]
A noun phrase – or NP or nominal (phrase) – is a phrase that usually has a noun or pronoun as its head, and has the same grammatical functions as a noun.[1] Noun phrases are very common cross-linguistically, and they may be the most frequently occurring phrase type.
Noun phrases often function as verb subjects and objects, as predicative expressions, and as complements of prepositions. One NP can be embedded inside another NP; for instance, some of his constituents has as a constituent the shorter NP his constituents.[2]
In some theories of grammar, noun phrases with determiners are analyzed as having the determiner as the head of the phrase, see for instance Chomsky (1995) and Hudson (1990).
Some examples of noun phrases are underlined in the sentences below. The head noun appears in bold. 
Noun phrases can be identified by the possibility of pronoun substitution, as is illustrated in the examples below.
A string of words that can be replaced by a single pronoun without rendering the sentence grammatically unacceptable is a noun phrase. As to whether the string must contain at least two words, see the following section.
Traditionally, a phrase is understood to contain two or more words. The traditional progression in the size of syntactic units is word < phrase < clause, and in this approach a single word (such as a noun or pronoun) would not be referred to as a phrase. However, many modern schools of syntax – especially those that have been influenced by X-bar theory – make no such restriction.[3] Here many single words are judged to be phrases based on a desire for theory-internal consistency. A phrase is deemed to be a word or a combination of words that appears in a set syntactic position, for instance in subject position or object position.
On this understanding of phrases, the nouns and pronouns in bold in the following sentences are noun phrases (as well as nouns or pronouns):
The words in bold are called phrases since they appear in the syntactic positions where multiple-word phrases (i.e. traditional phrases) can appear. This practice takes the constellation to be primitive rather than the words themselves. The word he, for instance, functions as a pronoun, but within the sentence it also functions as a noun phrase. The phrase structure grammars of the Chomskyan tradition (government and binding theory and the minimalist program) are primary examples of theories that apply this understanding of phrases. Other grammars such as dependency grammars are likely to reject this approach to phrases, since they take the words themselves to be primitive. For them, phrases must contain two or more words.
A typical noun phrase consists of a noun (the head of the phrase) together with zero or more dependents of various types. (These dependents, since they modify a noun, are called adnominal.) The chief types of these dependents are:
The allowability, form and position of these elements depend on the syntax of the language in question. In English, determiners, adjectives (and some adjective phrases) and noun modifiers precede the head noun, whereas the heavier units – phrases and clauses – generally follow it. This is part of a strong tendency in English to place heavier constituents to the right, making English more of a head-initial language. Head-final languages (e.g. Japanese and Turkish) are more likely to place all modifiers before the head noun. Other languages, such as French, often place even single-word adjectives after the noun.
Noun phrases can take different forms than that described above, for example when the head is a pronoun rather than a noun, or when elements are linked with a coordinating conjunction such as and, or, but. For more information about the structure of noun phrases in English, see English grammar § Phrases.
Noun phrases typically bear argument functions.[4] That is, the syntactic functions that they fulfill are those of the arguments of the main clause predicate, particularly those of subject, object and predicative expression. They also function as arguments in such constructs as participial phrases and prepositional phrases. For example:
Sometimes a noun phrase can also function as an adjunct of the main clause predicate, thus taking on an adverbial function, e.g.
In some languages, including English, noun phrases are required to be "completed" with a determiner in many contexts, and thus a distinction is made in syntactic analysis between phrases that have received their required determiner (such as the big house), and those in which the determiner is lacking (such as big house).
The situation is complicated by the fact that in some contexts a noun phrase may nonetheless be used without a determiner (as in I like big houses); in this case the phrase may be described as having a "null determiner". (Situations in which this is possible depend on the rules of the language in question; for English, see English articles.)
In the original X-bar theory, the two respective types of entity are called noun phrase (NP) and N-bar (N, N′). Thus in the sentence Here is the big house, both house and big house are N-bars, while the big house is a noun phrase. In the sentence I like big houses, both houses and big houses are N-bars, but big houses also functions as a noun phrase (in this case without an explicit determiner).
In some modern theories of syntax, however, what are called "noun phrases" above are no longer considered to be headed by a noun, but by the determiner (which may be null), and they are thus called determiner phrases (DP) instead of noun phrases. (In some accounts that take this approach, the constituent lacking the determiner – that called N-bar above – may be referred to as a noun phrase.)
This analysis of noun phrases is widely referred to as the DP hypothesis. It has been the preferred analysis of noun phrases in the minimalist program from its start (since the early 1990s), though the arguments in its favor tend to be theory-internal. By taking the determiner, a function word, to be head over the noun, a structure is established that is analogous to the structure of the finite clause, with a complementizer. Apart from the minimalist program, however, the DP hypothesis is rejected by most other modern theories of syntax and grammar, in part because these theories lack the relevant functional categories.[5] Dependency grammars, for instance, almost all assume the traditional NP analysis of noun phrases.
For illustrations of different analyses of noun phrases depending on whether the DP hypothesis is rejected or accepted, see the next section.
The representation of noun phrases using parse trees depends on the basic approach to syntactic structure adopted. The layered trees of many phrase structure grammars grant noun phrases an intricate structure that acknowledges a hierarchy of functional projections. Dependency grammars, in contrast, since the basic architecture of dependency places a major limitation on the amount of structure that the theory can assume, produce simple, relatively flat structures for noun phrases.
The representation also depends on whether the noun or the determiner is taken to be the head of the phrase (see the discussion of the DP hypothesis in the previous section).
Below are some possible trees for the two noun phrases the big house and big houses (as in the sentences Here is the big house and I like big houses).
1. Phrase-structure trees, first using the original X-bar theory, then using the current DP approach:
2. Dependency trees, first using the traditional NP approach, then using the DP approach:
The following trees represent a more complex phrase. For simplicity, only dependency-based trees are given.[6]
The first tree is based on the traditional assumption that nouns, rather than determiners, are the heads of phrases.
The head noun picture has the four dependents the, old, of Fred, and that I found in the drawer. The tree shows how the lighter dependents appear as pre-dependents (preceding their head) and the heavier ones as post-dependents (following their head).
The second tree assumes the DP hypothesis, namely that determiners rather than nouns serve as phrase heads.
The determiner the is now depicted as the head of the entire phrase, thus making the phrase a determiner phrase. There is still a noun phrase present (old picture of Fred that I found in the drawer) but this phrase is below the determiner.
An early conception of the noun phrase can be found in First work in English by Alexander Murison.[7] In this conception a noun phrase is "the infinitive of the verb" (p. 146), which may appear "in any position in the sentence where a noun may appear". For example, to be just is more important than to be generous has two underlined infinitives which may be replaced by nouns, as in justice is more important than generosity. This same conception can be found in subsequent grammars, such as 1878's A Tamil Grammar[8] or 1882's Murby's English grammar and analysis, where the conception of an X phrase is a phrase that can stand in for X.[9] By 1912, the concept of a noun phrase as being based around a noun can be found, for example, "an adverbial noun phrases is a group of words of which the noun is the base word, that tells the time or place of an action, or how long, how far, or how much".[10] By 1924, the idea of a noun phrase being a noun plus dependents seems to be established. For example, "Note order of words in noun-phrase--noun + adj. + genitive" suggests [11] a more modern conception of noun phrases.
See also:
Spathulosporaceae is a family of fungi in the order Spathulosporales and Hypocreomycetidae subclass.[1]

This Sordariomycetes-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Tour de France (in some markets titled French Tour[3]) is a 2016 French drama film directed by Rachid Djaïdani. It was screened in the Directors' Fortnight section at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival.[4][5]

This article related to a French film of the 2010s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This 2010s drama film–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Naoki Hommachi (本街 直樹, Hommachi Naoki, born July 31, 1968) is a former Japanese football player.
Hommachi was born in Hyogo Prefecture on July 31, 1968. After graduating from Kokushikan University, he joined Furukawa Electric (later JEF United Ichihara) in 1991. However he did not play at all in any match. In 1994, he moved to the newly promoted Japan Football League club NEC Yamagata (later Montedio Yamagata). He played as a regular player at center back. The club was promoted to the new J2 League in 1999. He retired at the end of the 1999 season.
This biographical article related to a Japanese association football defender born in the 1960s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Tamika Tremaglio is the former executive director of the National Basketball Players Association (NBPA). Tremaglio was selected by the players to replace Michele Roberts on September 22, 2021, and officially stepped into the role upon Roberts' retirement in early January 2022.[1] Prior to joining the NBPA as executive director, Tremaglio, who retired from Deloitte LLP,  served as the Managing Principal for Deloitte's Greater Washington offices.[1]
Tremaglio was born in St. Mary's County, Maryland.[1] Tremaglio earned her Bachelor of Arts degree from Mount St. Mary's University in Business & Finance in 1992.[2] She received a JD from the University of Maryland School of Law and an MBA from the University of Baltimore.[3] Tremaglio's mother, Pamela Langley, attended Morgan State University.[1]
Tremaglio joined Deloitte in November 2010 and was appointed Managing Principal for the Greater Washington Area in 2017.[1] She later joined the NBPA as an executive director.[3]
Tremaglio was named Managing Partner of the Year in 2019 by the Washington Business Journal[4] and was selected as one of Washington's 150 Most Powerful Women in 2019 and 2021 by the Washingtonian Magazine.[5][6] In 2020, Tremaglio received the Triple-Impact Executive Award from the Positive Coaching Alliance.[7]
Tremaglio is married to Gregory A. Tremaglio and has two sons, Rocque and Reece.[8] She is Catholic and has been a longtime member of St. Peter Claver’s Church in St. Inigoes, Maryland.[9]
Pound sign (#) denotes interim executive director.
Plesio (Comasco: Pies [ˈpjeːs]) is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Como in the Italian region Lombardy, located about 70 kilometres (43 mi) north of Milan and about 30 kilometres (19 mi) northeast of Como. As of 31 December 2004, it had a population of 833 and an area of 17.0 square kilometres (6.6 sq mi).[3]
Plesio borders the following municipalities: Cremia, Garzeno, Grandola ed Uniti, Menaggio, San Siro.


This article on a location in the Province of Como is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Olof Bergh (sometimes spelled Olaf Bergh) was an early Swedish-South African explorer and Cape Colony official as well as the progenitor of the well-known Bergh family in South Africa. He is also a former owner of South Africa's first wine estate "Groot Constantia" after Simon van der Stel. His accounts of his travels to the interior of the Cape Colony are among some of the first Dutch writings to originate on South African soil.
Olof Martini Bergh was born on 16 April 1643.[1] in Gothenburg in Sweden to Norwegian parents. Little is known about his pre-South African background although he appears to have been the youngest son from a aristocratic family of Swedish-Norwegian origin. At the age of 22, he entered the service of the Dutch East India Company in 1665. He first served in the East in Batavia (present day Jakarta) and then in 1676 moved to the Cape where he continued his service with the Company. He married Anna de Coningh[2] on 10 September 1678 in Cape Town, who herself had arrived in the Cape with her mother in 1657.[3] When Simon van der Stel became governor in 1679 he was a ensign at the Cape.
Some of Bergh's earliest work at the Cape included leading bartering trips to the neighboring as well as to the more remote kraals such as those of the Hessequas, a Khoi tribe, in search of livestock and in particular cattle.[4] In addition to these, one of the earliest accounts of Bergh's expeditions included leading a small party of colonists assembled to recapture and return to the Colony three men, who had escaped a few days earlier, which he did.
In 1682, shortly before his scheduled trip to Vigiti Magna, Bergh was despatched instructed to investigate and retrieve any surviving treasures from the stranded English ship Johanna,[5] which had was wrecked near Cape Agulhas on 8 June 1682. This ship had sunk beyond present day town of Hermanus, in the neighborhood of Gansbaai. After three months, Bergh returned with more than 28,000 guilders worth of treasure and a great deal of experience in conducting local expeditions. The details of this story named the "Landtocht na de Cape das Agulhas in den jare 1682" were recorded in the Company Day Register. 
Six weeks later, on 30 October, 1682, Bergh embarked on one of his most well-known expeditions, in which he was despatched by the then Governor of the Cape in search of the Namaqua and fabled "Copper Mountains" which had garnered significant attention of both the Cape officials and the VOC itself. He turned north and the details of this trip were again recorded, this time in "Die Journael van de landtocht gedaen by d'E Vaendrich Olof Bergh".[6][7] During this expedition, Bergh and two other members of his group inscribed their names on the face of a rock near the site of a spring[8] (later to become known as "Berghfontein", and designated as a former South African National Monument) as well as discovered and spent the night in a large cave (later to become known as "Heerenlogement", and which was used subsequently by numerous later explorers, including Van Der Stel himself). 
He returned to the Kasteel at the Cape on 19 December 1682 without any tangible results, although one success of his trip was an initial detailed mapping of this region of the Cape. Despite the failure of his own expedition, it has been noted that both Bergh's expedition as well as that of a previous explorer (Jonas de la Guerre, who set out in 1663), were instrumental in paving the way for the later successful trip of Governor Simon van der Stel's expedition in 1685, in which he successfully sampled copper-containing ore near the present day town of Springbok.[9] As a result of his experience in 1682, van der Stel again chose Bergh to lead another expedition in 1683 to the Namaquas, the people from the North who came to trade copper ore at the Castle.[citation needed] This journey is documented in "Rapport van den Vaendrich Olof Bergh op hare reyse na de Cralie van de Namaquas" (1683). 
According to the Daily Register, in a journal kept by Hendrik Claudius ("Dagregister van de landtocht van de Caap de Goede Hoop, waren gedistineert naar de Tropikus Caprikornij"), Bergh also undertook a trip to North in search of the Tropic of Capricorn. On this journey, however, he did not progress much further than the Doornbosch River (now Green River) due to the great drought and the difficulty of the terrain he encountered.[full citation needed]
In 1686 Bergh, who was now a high ranking member of Cape society and a close friend of Governor van der Stel, was named a member of the Political Council. In July 1686 Bergh was once again despatched in the direction of Cape Agulhas to search for the wreck of the Portuguese ship, Nostra Signora de los Milagnos, which had run aground and been abandoned and which Company officers had subsequently purchased.[10] In addition to a group of Jesuit priests, onboard the ship had been three envoys from the King of Siam with gifts intended for Pedro, King of Portugal, Louis XIV of France and Charles II of England. However, despite these valuables being on the ship at the time of departure, they were not accounted for at the wreck nor among the items returned at the conclusion of the expedition. Later, when Bergh was supervising the construction of the Council House in Stellenbosch in 1687, rumors began to circulate that items had been stolen from the Portuguese wreck during the previous expedition. Bergh was subsequently arrested and imprisoned at the Castle. After a month in custody, he pleaded guilty on 5 May 1687 and the valuables, including two golden pears and a flask of musk, were found buried in his garden. Bergh was subsequently banished to Robben Island, the place of great terror for both black and white criminals during Company times.[11] The following month, when a fleet of enemy French vessels sailed into Table Mountain, he was briefly returned to the mainland, but was returned to the island after the fleet's departure a short time later. Sometime later, in September 1690 he was released into the supervision of the Council of Seventeen (Here Sewentien).
Upon his release, because of his previous notable service to the Company, Bergh was given the option to retain his rank and leave the Cape immediately and take up duties at the Company station in Dutch Ceylon (currently Sri Lanka), or be remain at the Cape but be discharged from the Company and continue as a Freeburgher. Bergh chose the former and left for Ceylon shortly thereafter on the 29 December 1690 (without his wife) on the ship Pampus,[12] where he remained for five years until 1695 before being allowed to return to the Cape, once the scandal of his previous conviction had dissipated amidst the Burghers.
Soon after his return the Cape, it appears Bergh's previous conviction was not held against him and he was appointed Captain of the Garrison by the Governor and took up residence in a grand home on the Heerengracht (currently Adderleystraat) next to the church.[13] In 1698, Bergh was granted the farm Groot Phesantekraal near present day Durbanville,[14] whose flagship wine is named after his wife Anna. In 1701 he bought the farm De Kuilen (today's Kuils River) as well as the adjacent farm Saxenberg. He was again nominated as a member of the Political Council in 1697, 1699 and again in 1709 and 1710 was honored with a seat on the Council of Justice, when the new Governor, Willem Adriaan van der Stel, was facing various difficulties (including the attempted suicide of his wife Maria, who was saved by apparent intervention of Bergh's wife Anna[citation needed]). In addition to his home on the Heerengracht, Bergh was also the first owner of the farm De Hoop, located close to the town (on the site of present day Gardens), the remaining buildings of which still exist today and are operated as historic luxury accommodation[15] as well as two bungalows in Piquetberg. 
After his retirement, Bergh bought the historic farm Groot Constantia from the estate of Simon van der Stel where he lived with his wife until his death.[16][17][18] With his wife Anna, he fathered no less than twelve children, including Christina (1679), Maria (1682), Petrus (1684), Appolonia Africana (1686), Carolus Erlandt (1689), Johanna Magdalena (1691), Dorothea Francina (1695), Marthinus (1696), Simon Petrus (1696), Engela (1700) and Albertus (1702). He died on 19 July 1725 in Cape Town.
As a result of his various activities at the Cape as well as being one of the earliest European explorers of the Northern Cape, Bergh has become a well known member of early Cape Dutch history and lends his name to a number of cultural as well as official sites, including:
Several of Bergh's journals as well as missives have been preserved as part of the Dutch East India Company archives[34][35] which have subsequently preserved as part of the United Nations UNESCO Silk Roads project[36]
Through the diaries of his travels (which were among some of the very first Dutch writings to originate from the Cape within which it was already evident how these early writers had begun to evolve the Dutch language to deal with the unique circumstances and living habits of the colonists), Bergh is considered like many other early Colonists to have made an important contribution to the early development of the Afrikaans language. 
For example, Bergh appears to have been the first to record the phrase "bosjesmans" (later translated to "bushmen") when referring to the local indigenous people he came into contact with on his travels North from the Cape[37][38] as well as "Afrijkaenders" (referring to local European Colonists of Dutch heritage) as early as September 1683.[39]
USS L-9 (SS-49) was an L-class submarine of the United States Navy.
The L-class boats designed by Electric Boat (L-1 to L-4 and L-9 to L-11) were built to slightly different specifications from the other L boats, which were designed by Lake Torpedo Boat, and are sometimes considered a separate class. The Electric Boat submarines had a length of 168 feet 6 inches (51.4 m) overall, a beam of 17 feet 5 inches (5.3 m) and a mean draft of 13 feet 7 inches (4.1 m). They displaced 450 long tons (460 t) on the surface and 548 long tons (557 t) submerged. The L-class submarines had a crew of 28 officers and enlisted men. They had a diving depth of 200 feet (61.0 m).[1]
For surface running, the Electric Boat submarines were powered by two 450-brake-horsepower (336 kW) diesel engines, each driving one propeller shaft. When submerged each propeller was driven by a 170-horsepower (127 kW) electric motor. They could reach 14 knots (26 km/h; 16 mph) on the surface and 10.5 knots (19.4 km/h; 12.1 mph) underwater. On the surface, the boats had a range of 5,150 nautical miles (9,540 km; 5,930 mi) at 11 knots (20 km/h; 13 mph)[1] and 150 nmi (280 km; 170 mi) at 5 knots (9.3 km/h; 5.8 mph) submerged.[2]
The boats were armed with four 18-inch (450 mm) torpedo tubes in the bow. They carried four reloads, for a total of eight torpedoes. The Electric Boat submarines were initially not fitted with a deck gun; a single 3"/50 caliber gun on a disappearing mount was added during the war.[2]
L-9's keel was laid down on 2 November 1914 by Fore River Shipbuilding Company in Quincy, Massachusetts. She was launched on 27 October 1915 sponsored by Miss Heather Pattison Baxter, and commissioned on 4 August 1916. Assigned to the Atlantic Submarine flotilla, L-9 operated along the Atlantic coast until April 1917 developing new techniques of undersea warfare.
Following the United States's entry into World War I, submarines were needed to protect Allied shipping lanes to Europe.  After an extensive overhaul, preparing her for the task ahead, L-9 departed Portsmouth, Virginia, on 17 January 1918 and arrived Bantry Bay, Ireland, on 21 February. She remained in British waters throughout the war, patrolling for U-boats.
After the Armistice with Germany on 11 November, L-9 operated out of the Isle of Portland, England, until she sailed 3 January 1919 for the United States. Arriving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on 1 February, the submarine operated along the Atlantic coast for the next four years developing submarine warfare tactics. L-9 decommissioned at Hampton Roads, Virginia, on 4 May 1923 and was scrapped on 28 November 1933.
David Gary Crowton (born June 14, 1957) is an American football coach. He served as the head football coach at Louisiana Tech University from 1996 to 1998 and at Brigham Young University (BYU) from 2001 to 2004, compiling a career college football coaching record of 47–36.
Crowton has also served as offensive coordinator at the University of Maryland, at the University of Oregon, for the Chicago Bears of the National Football League (NFL), and at Louisiana State University (LSU).[1] He was the offensive coordinator for the 2007 LSU Tigers football team, which won the 2008 BCS National Championship Game and a consensus national championship. While at Oregon, Crowton was a 2005 finalist for the Broyles Award, given annually to the nation's top college football assistant coach. Crowton is most known for his aggressive offensive style, such as the "razzle dazzle" offensive scheme utilized in Chicago. He was nicknamed "The Wizard" by the LSU players, after completing 39 games with an accomplishment of at least 30 points within 25 games and a 25–10 overall mark.[2]
Crowton succeeded longtime coach LaVell Edwards as head coach of BYU in 2001. In his first season, he led the Cougars to a 12–2 record, their most wins since going 14–1 in 1996. However, the Cougars won only 14 more games in the next three years. By comparison, Edwards had suffered only two non-winning seasons in 29 years. He was forced to resign after the 2004 season.
In 2018, Crowton was hired as the offensive coordinator at Pine View High School in St. George, Utah.[3]
Crowton graduated from Orem High School in 1975 and went on to earn a B.S. in physical education from Brigham Young University in 1983. He and his wife, Maren, have four daughters and three sons. Crowton made an appearance in the Mormon pop culture film The R.M.[4]
# denotes interim head coach
Melanie Reid MBE FRSE (born 13 April 1957) is a British journalist. Her weekly column for The Times' magazine, "Spinal Column",[3] is about disability and her life as a disabled person. She broke her neck and back in April 2010 while horse riding,[2] and is now a tetraplegic. Following her accident, she spent twelve months in the spinal unit of Southern General Hospital in Glasgow, Scotland.
Reid was a columnist at The Herald in Glasgow and a former associate editor of The Sunday Mail before joining The Times and reporting and commentating from Scotland.
Reid said of her writing: "A lot of people take inspiration from it. I have a black sense of humour, I think you have to have in this situation. You have to try to keep going and tell it like it is."[4]
Reid co-wrote actor Gregor Fisher's 2015 autobiography The Boy from Nowhere. A tie-in documentary, In Search of Gregor Fisher, broadcast on BBC One Scotland, followed Reid and Fisher during part of their research for the book.  Reid's memoir The World I Fell Out Of was published in 2019 by 4th Estate (HarperCollins) and won the Saltire Non Fiction Book of the Year Award.
She was named 2011 Columnist of the Year in the British Press Awards,[5] and in 2012 she was awarded broadsheet Columnist of the Year.[6] Her column generates hundreds of letters, emails and comments every week. In June 2014, Reid received an honorary degree from the University of Stirling "in recognition of her contribution to journalism, to disability rights and awareness, and for being an inspirational example of human resilience and dignity".[7]
Reid was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2016 Birthday Honours for services to journalism and to people with disabilities.[8] She was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2022.[9]
Reid is married, has a son, and lives in Stirlingshire, Scotland.
The India Office was a British government department established in London in 1858 to oversee the administration, through a Viceroy and other officials, of the Provinces of India. These territories comprised most of the modern-day nations of Indian Subcontinent as well as Yemen and other territories around the Indian Ocean. The department was headed by the Secretary of State for India, a member of the British cabinet, who was formally advised by the Council of India.[1]
Upon the independence of India in 1947 into the new independent dominion of India, the India Office was closed down.  Responsibility for the United Kingdom's relations with the new country was transferred to the Commonwealth Relations Office (formerly the Dominions Office).
The East India Company was established in 1600 as a joint-stock company of English merchants who received, by a series of charters, exclusive rights to English trade with the "Indies", defined as the lands lying between the Cape of Good Hope and the Straits of Magellan; the term "India" had been derived from the name of the Indus River, long important to commerce and civilisation in the region. The Company soon established a network of "factories" throughout the south and east Indies in Asia. Over a period of 250 years the Company underwent several substantial changes in its basic character and functions.
A period of rivalry between the Old and New Companies after 1698 resulted in the formation in 1709 of the United Company of Merchants Trading to the East Indies. This 'new' East India Company was transformed during the second half of the 18th century from a mainly commercial body with scattered Asian trading interests into a major territorial power in South Asia with its headquarters in Bengal, present day state of West Bengal of India and Bangladesh. The political implications of this development eventually caused the British government in 1784 to institute standing Commissioners (the Board of Control) in London to exercise supervision over the Company's Indian policies.
This change in the Company's status, along with other factors, led to the Acts of Parliament of 1813 and 1833, which opened British trade with the East Indies to all shipping and resulted in the Company's complete withdrawal from its commercial functions. The Company continued to exercise responsibility, under the supervision of the Board, for the government of British India until the re-organisation of 1858.
Throughout most of these changes the basic structure of Company organisation in East India House in the City of London remained largely unaltered, comprising a large body of proprietors or shareholders and an elected Court of Directors, headed by a chairman and deputy chairman who, aided by permanent officials, were responsible for the daily conduct of Company business. The Board of Control maintained its separate office close to the Government buildings in Westminster.
With the Government of India Act 1858, the Company and the Board of Control of the East India Companies were replaced by a single new department of state in London, the India Office, which functioned, under the Secretary of State for India, as an executive office of United Kingdom government alongside the Foreign Office, Colonial Office, Home Office and War Office.
The Secretary of State for India was assisted by a statutory body of advisers, the Council of India, and headed a staff of civil servants organised into a system of departments largely taken over from the East India Company and Board of Control establishments, and housed in a new India Office building in Whitehall. The Secretary of State for India inherited all the executive functions previously carried out by the Company, and all the powers of 'superintendence, direction and control' over the British provincial administrations in South Asia previously exercised by the Board of Control. Improved communications with South Asia – the overland and submarine telegraph cables (1868–70), and the opening of the Suez Canal (1869) – rendered this control, exercised through the Viceroy and provincial Governors covering large areas in the regions of Asia, Africa and the Middle East, more effective in the last quarter of the nineteenth century. It was only with the constitutional reforms initiated during the First World War, and carried forward by the India Acts of 1919 and 1935, that there came about a significant relaxation of India Office supervision over the Government of British India, and with it, in South Asia, a gradual devolution of authority to legislative bodies and local governments. The same administrative reforms also led in 1937 to the separation of Burma from rest of South Asia and the creation in London of the Burma Office, separate from the India Office though sharing the same Secretary of State and located in the same building. With the gradual events and establishments of sovereign independent nations and the final grant of independence to present-day India and Pakistan in 1947, and to present-day Myanmar in 1948, both the India Office and the Burma Office were officially dissolved.
As a result of the widespread involvement in the external relations and defence policy of pre-1947 African, Asian and Middle Eastern countries, the India Office was also responsible for[clarification needed] particular neighbouring or connected areas at different times. Among the most significant of these are:
Other groups of involvement have also resulted from India Office interest in the status of Indian emigrants to the West Indies, south and east Africa, and Fiji.
The India Office had its offices in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Main Building in Whitehall.
The India Office Records are the repository of the archives of the East India Company (1600–1858), the Board of Control or Board of Commissioners for the Affairs of British India (1784–1858), the India Office (1858–1947), the Burma Office (1937–1948), and a number of related British agencies overseas which were officially linked with one or other of the four main bodies. The focus of the India Office Records is in the territories mainly that today include Central Asia, the Middle East, regions of Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia and their administration before 1947. The official archives of the India Office Records are complemented by over 300 collections and over 3,000 smaller deposits of Private Papers relating to the British experience in India.
The India Office Records, previously housed in the India Office Library, became the responsibility of the British Library Board in 1982, and are now administered as part of the Asia, Pacific and Africa Collections of the British Library, London, as part of the Public Records of the United Kingdom. They are open for public consultation, except for recent personal files, and a very small number of subject files. They comprise 14 kilometres of shelves of volumes, files and boxes of papers, together with 70,000 volumes of official publications and 105,000 manuscript and printed maps.
51°30′09.9″N 0°07′45.26″W﻿ / ﻿51.502750°N 0.1292389°W﻿ / 51.502750; -0.1292389
Derwentia is an extinct genus of trematosaurian temnospondyl within the family Rhytidosteidae. It is known from a single skull found from the Knocklofty Sandstone of Tasmania, which is Early Triassic in age.[1]





This Temnospondyli-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.This article related to a Triassic animal is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Goran Ivanišević and Michael Stich were the defending champions, but lost in the round robin.
Paul Haarhuis and Cédric Pioline won in the final 6–3, 6–4, against Pat Cash and Emilio Sánchez
Standings are determined by: 1. number of wins; 2. number of matches; 3. in three-players-ties, percentage of sets won, or of games won; 4. steering-committee decision.
Standings are determined by: 1. number of wins; 2. number of matches; 3. in three-players-ties, percentage of sets won, or of games won; 4. steering-committee decision.
Vigil (/viˈhɪl/ vee-HILL) is a Spanish surname.
The Vigil surname comes from the word "vigil,"[citation needed] which is from the Latin "vigilia," meaning "wakefulness." Richard D. Woods and Grace Alvarez-Altman write that the surname is, "descendant of Vigil (watchful); one born on the feast of the nativity. [E.S.] Refers to someone who is watchful and vigilant. Asturian name. [J.A.]."[1] Woods and Alvarez-Altman refer to Elsdon C. Smith and Julio de Atienza as sources of their information. However, the work by Smith, Dictionary of American Family Names does not contain information on the name Vigil. The surname may have come from the town of Vigil, in Asturias, Spain.[citation needed] Julio de Atienza relates that the name Vigil is of Asturian origin in Nobiliario español.[2]
The name is especially prevalent[vague] in the Rio de la Plata region and in New Mexico.
Notable people with the surname include:
Marie Morisawa (November 2, 1919 – June 10, 1994) was an American geomorphologist.  Morisawa was an integral part of the revolution in the field that began in the 1950s.  She studied the geomorphology of rivers, active fault zones, plate tectonics, coastal geomorphology, geological hazards, and environmental geomorphology.[1]
Morisawa was born on November 2, 1919, and died in a single-car[2] accident on June 10, 1994.[1] She was born in Toledo, Ohio, to a Japanese father and an American mother.[2] She earned a B.S. in mathematics from Hunter College in 1941, with a minor in chemistry. She then earned an M.A. in theology before turning to geology and obtaining an M.S. from University of Wyoming in 1952. She taught at Bryn Mawr College from 1955 to 1959. In 1960 she earned her Ph.D. from Columbia University. Arthur Newell Strahler was the advisor for her doctoral work on the quantitative geomorphology of Pennsylvania streams.[1] Morisawa's desire to understand the natural world becomes apparent when considering her varied academic pursuits. She had a love for plants, animals, the beauty and aesthetic value of landscapes.[2]
Morisawa became an assistant professor in 1959 at the University of Montana. After that from 1961 to 1962 she was employed in Washington, D.C., by the U.S. Geological Survey. She continued her career as a professor from 1963 to 1969 at Antioch College.[3]
Morisawa was the councillor for the Geological Society of America and the American Quaternary Association. As well, Morisawa was the chair member for the Quaternary Geology and Geomorphology Division of the Geological Society of America multiple times.[citation needed]
Due to Marie's national and international reputations, scientists from all over the world congregated to Binghamton for their sabbatical studies. In 1987-1988 she had a Fulbright Award to lecture in India. She became a geologist-in-residence in 1990 at Carlton after being sought after by multiple universities. In Binghamton, she donated her services by helping in the managing of the environment. This continued service led to Morisawa being a key contributor in writing master plan for the Town of Vestal, New York.[3]
Morisawa joined her discipline in 1960, at that time few women were involved in research and university-level science teaching. She was the first female chair of the QG&G division (quaternary geology & geomorphology), and mentored younger scientists all throughout her career.[4]
During her career in Binghamton, New York, Morisawa always kept the door open for her students to join lunches where discussions took place on the different factors of the state of geology as well as geomorphology.  Marie loved to teach and engage with her students on geological discussions.[2]
Morisawa wrote eight books, including Evaluating Riverscapes in 1971. She founded the journal Geomorphology in 1986 and was its editor in chief.[5] She became "the first female chair" of the Quaternary Geology and Geomorphology Division of the Geological Society of America and helped found "the annual Binghamton Geomorphology Symposia."[6] To recognize her research and educational achievements she received the Outstanding Educator Award from the Association of Women Geoscientists in 1992.[7]
Marie Morisawa was part of the geomorphology revolution in the 1950s and 1960s. This work involves measuring both slopes and stream channels and understanding the relationship they have on larger scale impacts. Marie worked on talus slopes in the Rocky Mountains doing research involving geomorphology. Morisawa was also one of the founders of environmental geomorphology.
Geomorphic changes caused by the 1959 Hebgen Lake earthquake in Montana played a significant role in the start of her research. The earthquake remains provided an ideal outdoor laboratory for Morisawa's studies on the initiation of drainage systems. This work produced several abstracts including the 1964 article publication in the American Journal of Science.[3]
In 1976 Morisawa presented her research on riverscape preferences at the first northeastern women's geoscientists conference at St. Lawrence University. Her research determined which characteristics of riverscapes are valued by certain demographics of the population through a ratings system that determined factors of beauty.[8]
Morisawa furthered her research on watersheds and geomorphology, publishing the article Quantitative Geomorphology of Some Watersheds in the Appalachian Plateau.[9]  Her research included looking at the geologic structure of the watershed basins in the Appalachian Plateau, and how other interactions affect the streamflow and geomorphology of the basins. The stratigraphy or specifically sequence stratigraphy of basins include anticlines that have been eroded over time and the outer edges of the basin defined with steep scarps. The strata in these basins change over time and these changes can affect direction or velocity of streamflow.[10]
Throughout the years, Morisawa received many grants, following the successful geomorphic and geological research she produced. Organizations such as: The National Science Foundation, The US Department of Commerce Sea Grant Program, The United States Geological Survey, Ford Foundation, and The Office of Water Resources provided the funding Morisawa required to continue her research.[2]
In 2006 the Geological Society of America established the Marie Morisawa Award in her honor. The award is presented annually to a woman M.S. or Ph.D. graduate student pursuing a career in geomorphology.[6] It was first awarded in 2009 to Jill Onken from the University of Arizona.[7]
Roger Anthony Enrico[1] (November 11, 1944 – June 1, 2016) was an American businessman who is best known for his lengthy service as chief executive officer of PepsiCo.
Enrico was born on November 11, 1944, to Italian immigrants in the Mesabi Range mining town of Chisholm, Minnesota. He was awarded a scholarship to Babson College where he studied business administration. Enrico enlisted in the United States Navy and served in Vietnam.[2]
Enrico started his business career with General Mills as a brand manager for Wheaties. In 1971, he joined PepsiCo to help market Funyuns. He later served as brand manager for Cheetos and Fritos before heading operations in Japan and South America.[2] He was appointed CEO of the beverage division of PepsiCo in 1983 at the age of 38. That year he signed Michael Jackson to a multimillion-dollar marketing deal. Lionel Richie was later signed.[2] Enrico became CEO of Frito-Lay in 1991, followed by vice chair of PepsiCo in 1994.[3][4]
Enrico was the Chairman of PepsiCo from 1996 to 2001, and Chairman of DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc from 2004 to 2012.[5][6] He was well known for his business rivalry with fellow businessman Roberto Goizueta, CEO of Coca-Cola during his tenure as Pepsi's CEO.[7]
He served on the board of directors of the National Geographic Society, the Environmental Defense Fund, the Solar Electric Light Fund, and the American Film Institute.[6]
Enrico died June 1, 2016, aged 71, while snorkelling in the Cayman Islands, where he had a home.[8]
In 2023, Enrico was portrayed in the film Flamin' Hot by Tony Shalhoub.[9]
A by-election was held in the Legislative Assembly of Queensland seat of Rockhampton on 17 February 1923.  It was triggered by the resignation of Frank Forde after he had been successful with his bid to enter federal politics, winning the seat of Capricornia at the 1922 Federal Election.
Due to the slim majority Ted Theodore's government had at the time, the result of the 1923 Rockhampton by-election was critical to the Labor Party as to whether they could remain in power.
As such, it became a bitter campaign and is infamous in political circles for its aggressive, scandalous and sometimes violent nature which included allegations of a smear campaign, and bribery.[1][2][3][4]
During the campaign, it was discovered a woman had been allegedly paid to come to Rockhampton to claim Labor candidate George Farrell was the father of her two-year-old child in a deliberate attempt to cost him votes.[5][6][7][8]
The allegations were met with widespread condemnation in the press. Brisbane's Labor newspaper The Daily Standard was perhaps unsurprisingly amongst the most vocal in their criticism of the apparent smear campaign against Farrell.[9][10][11]
The by-election campaign became so eventful that it was widely reported in the national press including in some Sydney newspapers.[12][13][14]
William Charlton, already serving as Rockhampton mayor, contested the by-election representing the United Party.  Born in Rockhampton in 1870, Charlton was a local Rockhampton businessman who had originally entered local politics by serving for three years on Mount Morgan Town Council.  He began serving on Rockhampton City Council as an alderman in 1914 and became mayor of Rockhampton in 1921.[15]  He declared during the campaign that he didn't plan on resigning from being Rockhampton mayor if he was successful in becoming Member for Rockhampton, claiming that the dual role would bring benefits to the local area.[16]
George Farrell was born in Eidsvold and was educated in Howard.  After becoming a pupil teacher in 1909 for the Department of Public Instruction, he was transferred to Rockhampton in 1914 to become a teacher at the Central Boys School. During his time in Rockhampton, he served as president of various branches of the Labor Party and acted as the campaign secretary for Frank Forde in Forde's campaign to win the Federal seat of Capricornia in 1921. After Forde's success, Farrell was nominated by the Labor Party to contest the resulting by-election.[17]
Charles Iredale immigrated to Australia from England at a young age and settled at Pink Lily. Throughout his life he became known for being outspoken on various local issues and for his repeated attempts to enter local politics.  Iredale had previously contested 13 local elections before finally being successful in becoming an alderman on Rockhampton City Council where he served just one term.  Following this, he contested several more local elections, becoming successful in serving several terms with the neighbouring Fitzroy Shire Council.[18]  He launched an eleventh-hour bid to contest the by-election as an Independent Nationalist with an announcement at the Rockhampton School of Arts just days before the event.  Iredale's impromptu campaign for the by-election was generally met with derision with his address frequently interrupted by heckles and interjections from the crowd that had gathered to watch.[19]
Following the by-election, it was announced that Farrell had been declared the winner.[17]  At 27 years of age, it was believed Farrell became the youngest person to sit in any Australian parliament.[17][a] Farrell had little time to settle in to the role and was soon back campaigning when the Queensland parliament was dissolved two months later for the 1923 Queensland election which was held on 12 May 1923.
Minuscule 299 (in the Gregory-Aland numbering), A21 (Soden),[1] is a Greek minuscule manuscript of the New Testament, on parchment. Palaeographically it has been assigned to the 10th century.[2] 
It has marginalia.
The codex contains a complete text of the four Gospels on 328 parchment leaves (27.5 cm by 20.5 cm). The text is written in one column per page, in 24 lines per page.[2]
The text is divided according to the κεφαλαια (chapters), whose numbers are given at the margin of the text, and their τιτλοι (titles of chapters) at the top of the pages. There is also another division according to the smaller Ammonian Sections (in Mark 240, 16:8), with references to the Eusebian Canons.[3]
It contains the Epistula ad Carpianum, Prolegomena, the Eusebian tables, Synaxarion, Menologion, subscriptions at the end of each Gospel, and pictures.[3] 
The biblical text is surrounded by a commentary (Mark – Victorinus).[3]
The Greek text of the codex is a mixture of text-types. Kurt Aland did not place it in any Category.[4]
It was not examined by using the Claremont Profile Method.[5]
It was added to the list of New Testament manuscripts by Scholz (1794–1852).[6] 
It was examined and described by Paulin Martin.[7] C. R. Gregory saw the manuscript in 1885.[3]
The manuscript is currently housed at the Bibliothèque nationale de France (Gr. 177) at Paris.[2]
Varangu is a village in Haljala Parish, Lääne-Viru County, in northeastern Estonia.[1]

59°29′14″N 26°19′29″E﻿ / ﻿59.48722°N 26.32472°E﻿ / 59.48722; 26.32472

This Lääne-Viru County location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Kayrat is a village in Almaty Region, in south-eastern Kazakhstan.[1]

This Almaty Region location article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
The members of the 37th Manitoba Legislature were elected in the Manitoba general election held in September 1999.[1] The legislature sat from November 18, 1999, to May 2, 2003.[2]
The New Democratic Party led by Gary Doer formed the government.[1]
Gary Filmon of the Progressive Conservative Party was Leader of the Opposition. After Filmon's resignation in 2000, Bonnie Mitchelson served as acting party leader until Stuart Murray was elected leader in November 2000.[3]
George Hickes served as speaker for the assembly.[1]
There were four sessions of the 37th Legislature:[2]
Peter Liba was Lieutenant Governor of Manitoba.[4]
The following members were elected to the assembly in 1999:[1]
Notes:

By-elections were held to replace members for various reasons:
Notes:
Sivens Dam (Barrage de Sivens) was a dam which was planned for construction across the Tescou, a tributary of the Tarn in the basin of the Garonne in Southern France, near to Toulouse. The construction site was 10 km north of Lisle-sur-Tarn, in the Department of Tarn (Midi-Pyrénées). The dam was named after the nearby Forest of Sivens. Construction work began in 2014 and was then halted after Rémi Fraisse, a 21-year-old man protesting against the construction project, was killed by a stun grenade fired by police. His death sparked further protests across France, some of which were violent.[1] The project was then closed in 2015 by the Minister of Ecology Ségolène Royal.[2][3] There was a later proposal for a smaller dam.
Sivens is in the Tescou, a tributary of the Tarn in the basin of the Garonne. A barrage project was initiated for the formation of a water reservoir with a volume of 1.5 million cubic metres used especially for irrigation of agricultural land and the control of the low water Tescou. The impact of the project lies in retaining the flooding of 12 hectares of wetland. Countervailing measures were planned to restore a total area of 19.5 hectares of wetlands. This project was to have benefited from 30%  European funds (Fedear). The main actors of the project were the general council of Tarn region, Water Agency Adour Garonne and the development company "Slopes of Gascony".
In 2011, a collective called Tant qu’il y aura des bouilles was created to fight this project. The name means 'As long as there are bouilles,' with bouilles in local dialect meaning a swampy piece of land that is not worth very much money.[4] Hundreds of people came to protect the biodiversity of the wetlands and to prevent the construction of the dam.[5] They created a ZAD (French: zone à défendre) or 'Zone to Defend' in 2013, as a permanent protest camp called ZAD du Testet. It was evicted twice (in February and May 2014) and both times resquatted again.[3][5] The summer and autumn of 2014 saw many battles between police and demonstrators, as the construction works began.[6]
A policeman was charged in 2018 with a crime punishable by up to 5 years in prison and a fine of 75,000 euros ('violences volontaires') for throwing a grenade into a caravan where three people were sheltering. At first the policeman claimed he threw the grenade at more demonstrators coming as reinforcements but this was not true. He then claimed he had not intended to throw the grenade into the caravan but this was also disproved by the evidence. This event occurred on 7 October 2014, three weeks before the death of Rémi Fraisse.[7] The policeman was convicted in January 2019. He was given a suspended sentence of 6 months, during which time he was forbidden to use a weapon, and he was fined 1,000 euros to be paid to the woman he injured.[8]
Rémi Fraisse, a 21 year-old botanist, was killed instantly by a explosive grenade fired in the early hours of Sunday morning, 26 October 2014. It was the first death at a protest on mainland France since 1986. Shortly afterwards the regional council decided to halt work on the project.[9] In January 2015, Ségolène Royal announced that the project was cancelled.[3]
In March 2015, the departmental council of Tarn voted narrowly in favour of building a dam and creating a reservoir further upstream around half the size of the original project. They also requested that the police cleared the ZAD.[3]
Karen Platt is a British gardening author and publisher, best known for the reference book Black Magic and Purple Passion. She started her writing career in 1996 by self-publishing her first book, The Seed Search. She has been on BBC television, KATU, HGTV and BBC Radio several times. Her publications have been recommended by Alan Titchmarsh and others. Since 2001, much of her work has involved popularizing black plants; she founded the International Black Plant Society in 2002. Platt also runs a nursery called Black Plant Nursery.

This article about an English writer, poet or playwright is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Antonio Valentin Sefer (born 22 April 2000) is a Romanian professional footballer who plays as a winger for Israeli Premier League club Hapoel Be'er Sheva
On 20 February 2019, Sefer signed a four-and-half-year contract with Rapid București.[1]
On 12 June 2023, Sefer signed a four-year contract with Hapoel Be'er Sheva.
Sefer was selected in Romania's team for the football tournament at the 2020 Summer Olympics.[2][3][4]
Rapid București
Nettby.no (Norwegian: Web City) was the second largest Internet-based community in Norway (after Facebook) with more than 980,000 users and profiles (as of January 3, 2009). It was founded on September 14, 2006, and was fully owned by VG Multimedia AS, a Norwegian news company, and Nettby Community Holding AS. Users used nicknames (such as FinKat) instead of their real names. Users' profiles were visible to all other users. "Communities" on Nettby are linked to the city (or other geographical unit, such as a town or village) that the user claimed as his or her current residence. Trondheim was the largest community, with over 36,000 "inhabitants".
The community closed on 19 December 2010.
Sclerophasma is a genus of insects in the family Mantophasmatidae. It is a monotypic genus consisting of the species Sclerophasma paresisense.[2]
Sclerophasma paresisense is endemic to Namibia, where it is only known from the Paresisberge.[1]

This Notoptera related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Gonibregmatus is a genus of centipedes in the family Gonibregmatidae. It was described by British entomologist George Newport in 1843.[1][2]
Centipedes in this genus feature a convex labral margin fringed by bristles, uniarticulate telepodites on the first maxillae, claws on the second maxillae without filaments, additional sclerites flanking the trunk tergites, and sternal pores in two transverse bands. These centipedes range in length from about 10 cm to 15 cm and have 99 to 191 pairs of legs.[3] The small species Gonibregmatus olivaceus (with males 97 mm long and females 110 mm long) can have as few as 99 leg pairs (males with 99 to 103 pairs, females with 113 pairs), the minimum number in this genus.[4] The smallest species, G. insularis, reaches only 97 mm in length, whereas the largest species, G. fijianus, can reach 150 mm in length.[5] The species G. plurimipes can have as many as 191 leg pairs, the maximum number found in the class Chilopoda.[6]
There are six valid species:[2]

This myriapoda-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Srđan Branković is a Serbian guitar player and producer, best known as the member of the progressive/power metal band Alogia. He has had many performances with Alogia, most notably with the Symphony Orchestra and Vojkan Borisavljevic, as well as before the bands Whitesnake, Savatage, Apocalyptica, and in Bulgaria he performed in the backing band Michael Matijevic. In 2008 he was a guest on Shadow Gallery album, "Digital Ghost". In 2021, under the auspices of Frontiers Records, he will start a new band The Big Deal. In 2022, he appeared as a guitarist in the line-up on the first solo album of Rainbow singer Ronnie Romero. He also appeared as a representative / guitarist of his country on the Vivaldi Metal project, in a guitar duo with Chris Caffery.
Hideya Okamoto (岡本 英也, Okamoto Hideya, born 18 May 1987 in Sakai, Osaka) is a Japanese footballer currently playing for Tiamo Hirakata.
Updated to 23 February 2018.[1][2][3]

This biographical article related to a Japanese association football forward, born in the 1980s is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
STS-87 was a Space Shuttle mission launched from Launch Complex 39B of the Kennedy Space Center on 19 November 1997. It was the 88th flight of the Space Shuttle and the 24th flight of Columbia. The mission goals were to conduct experiments using the United States Microgravity Payload (USMP-4), conduct two EVAs, and deploy the SPARTAN-201 experiment. This mission marked the first time an EVA was performed from Columbia. An EVA from Columbia was originally planned for STS-5 in 1982 but was canceled due to spacesuit problems. It also marked the first EVA conducted by a Japanese astronaut, Takao Doi.
STS-87 flew the United States Microgravity Payload (USMP-4), Spartan-201, Orbital Acceleration Research Experiment (OARE), TEVA Demonstration Flight Test 5 (EDFT-05), the Shuttle Ozone Limb Sending Experiment (SOLSE), the Loop Heat Pipe (LHP), the Sodium Sulfur Battery Experiment (NaSBE), the Turbulent GAS Jet Diffusion (G-744) experiment, and the Autonomous EVA Robotic Camera/Sprint (AERCam Sprint) experiment. Mid-deck experiments included the Middeck Glovebox Payload (MGBX) and the Collaborative Ukrainian Experiment (CUE).
The United States Microgravity Payload (USMP-4) was a Spacelab project managed by Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, Alabama. The complement of microgravity research experiments was divided between two Mission-Peculiar Experiment Support Structures (MPESS) in the payload bay. The extended mission capability offered by the Extended Duration Orbiter (EDO) kit provides an opportunity for additional science gathering time.
Spartan 201-04 was a Solar Physics Spacecraft designed to perform remote sensing of the hot outer layers of the Sun's atmosphere or solar corona. It was expected to be deployed on orbit 18 and retrieved on orbit 52. The objective of the observations was to investigate the mechanisms causing the heating of the solar corona and the acceleration of the solar wind that originates in the corona. Two primary experiments were the Ultraviolet Coronal Spectrometer from the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the White Light Coronograph (WLC) from the High Altitude Observatory. Spartan 201 had three secondary experiments. The Technology Experiment Augmenting Spartan (TEXAS) was a Radio Frequency (RF) communications experiment that provided flight experience for components baselined on future Spartan missions, and a real-time communications and control link with the primary Spartan 201 experiments. This link was used to provide a fine-pointing adjustment to the WLC based on solar images downlinked in real-time. The Video Guidance Sensor (VGS) Flight Experiment was a laser guidance system that tested a key component of the Automated Rendezvous and Capture (AR&C) system. The Spartan Auxiliary Mounting Plate (SPAM) was a small equipment mounting plate that provided a mounting location for small experiments or auxiliary equipment of the Spartan Flight Support Structure (SFSS) It was a honeycomb plate using an experimental silicon carbide aluminum face sheet material with an aluminum core.
The Advanced Automated Directional Solidification Furnace (AADSF) was a sophisticated materials science facility used for studying a common method of processing semiconductor crystals called directional solidification. Solidification is the process of freezing materials. In the type of directional solidification used in AADSF, the liquid sample, enclosed in quartz ampoules, slowly solidified along the long axis. A mechanism moved the sample through varying temperature zones in the furnace. To start processing, the furnace melted all but one end of the sample towards the other. Once crystallized, the sample remained in the furnace to be examined post-flight. The solidification front was of particular interest to scientists because the flows found in the liquid material influence the final composition and structure of the solid and its properties.
The Confined Helium Experiment (CHeX) provided a test of theories of the influence of boundaries on the matter by measuring the heat capacity of helium as it is confined to two dimensions.
The Isothermal Dendritic Growth Experiment (IDGE) was a materials science solidification experiment that researchers used to investigate a particular type of solidification called dendritic growth. Dendritic solidification is one of the most common forms of solidifying metals and alloys. When materials crystallize or solidify under certain conditions, they freeze unstably, resulting in tiny, tree-like crystalline forms called dendrites. Scientists are particularly interested in dendrite size, shape, and how the branches of the dendrites interact with each other. These characteristics largely determine the properties of the material.
Designed for research on the directional solidification of metallic alloys, the Material pour l'Etude des Phenomenes Interssant la Solidification sur Terre et en Orbite (MEPHISTO) experiment was primarily interested in measuring the temperature, velocity, and shape of the solidification front (the point where the solid and liquid contact each other during solidification.) MEPHISTO simultaneously processed three identical cylindrical samples of bismuth and tin alloy. In the first sample, the temperature fluctuations of the moving solidification were measured electrically, disturbing the sample. The position of the solid to liquid border was determined by an electrical resistance technique in the second sample. In the third sample, the faceted solidification front was marked at selected intervals with electric current pulses. The samples were returned to Earth for analysis. During the mission, MEPHISTO data were correlated with data from the Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS). By comparing data, scientists determined how accelerations aboard the shuttle disturbed the solid to the liquid interface.
The Space Acceleration Measurement System (SAMS), sponsored by NASA Lewis Research Center (now NASA Glenn Research Center), was a microprocessor-driven data acquisition system designed to measure and record the microgravity acceleration environment of the USMP carrier. The SAMS had three triaxial sensor heads that were separate from the electronics package for remote positioning. In operation, the triaxial sensor head produced output signals in response to acceleration inputs. The signals were amplified, filtered, and converted into digital data. The digital acceleration data were transferred to optical disk memory for ground analysis and downlinked to the ground for near-real-time analysis. Each accelerometer had a mass suspended by a quartz element allowing movement along one axis only. A coil was attached to the mass and the assembly was placed between two permanent magnets. An applied acceleration displaced the mass from its resting position. This movement was sensed by a detector, causing SAMS electronics to send a voltage to the coil, producing exactly the magnetic field needed to restore the mass to its original position. The applied voltage was proportional to the applied acceleration and was output to the SAMS electronics as acceleration data.
While flying separately in the cargo bay, the Orbital Acceleration Research Experiment (OARE), sponsored by NASA Lewis Research Center (now Glenn Research Center), was an integral part of USMP-04. It was a highly sensitive instrument designed to measure low-level aerodynamic acceleration along the orbiter's principal axes in the free-molecular flow regime at orbital altitudes and in the transition regime during re-entry. OARE data were also downlinked during the mission for near-real-time analysis in support of the USMP science experiments. OARE data supported advances in space materials processing by providing measurements of the low-level, low-frequency disturbance environment affecting various microgravity experiments. OARE data also supported advances in orbital drag prediction technology by increasing the understanding of the fundamental flow phenomena in the upper atmosphere.
The objective of the Shuttle Ozone Limb Sounding Experiment (SOLSE) was to determine the altitude distribution of ozone in an attempt to understand its behavior so that quantitative changes in the composition of the atmosphere can be predicted. SOLSE was intended to perform ozone distribution that a nadir instrument can achieve. This was performed using Charged Coupled Device (CCD) technology to eliminate moving parts in a simpler, low-cost, ozone mapping instrument. The experiment was housed in a Hitchhiker (HH/GAS) canister with a canister extension ring and equipped with a Hitchhiker Motorized Door Assembly (HMDA). Instrumentation included an Ultraviolet (UV) spectrograph with a CCD array detector, CCD array and visible light cameras, calibration lamp, optics, and baffling. Once in orbit, a crew member activated SOLSE which performed limb and Earth viewing observations. Limb observations focuses on the region 20 kilometers (12 mi) to 50 kilometers (31 mi) altitude above the horizon for the Earth's surface. Earth viewing observations enabled SOLSE to correlate the data with other nadir viewing, ozone instruments.
The Loop Heat Pipe (LHP) test advanced thermal energy management technology and validating technology readiness for upcoming commercial spacecraft applications. The LHP was operated with anhydrous ammonia as the working fluid to transport thermal energy with high effective conductivity in zero gravity. LHP was a passive, two-phase flow heat transfer device that was capable of transporting up to 400 watts over a distance of 5 meters through semiflexible, small-diameter tubes. It used capillary forces to circulate the two-phase working fluid. The system was self-priming and totally passive in operation. When heat was applied to the LHP evaporator, part of the working fluid vaporized. The vapor flowed through the vapor transport lines and condensed, releasing heat. The condensation returned to the evaporator via capillary action through the liquid transport lines.
The Sodium Sulfur Battery Experiment (NaSBE) characterized the performance of four 40 ampere-hour sodium-sulfur battery cells, representing the first test of sodium-sulfur battery technology in space. Each cell was composed of a sodium anode, sulfur cathode, and solid ceramic sodium ion-conducting electrolyte and separator. The cells were heated to 350 degrees Celsius to liquefy the sodium and sulfur. Once the anode and cathode were liquefied, the cells started to generate electrical power. Once in orbit, a crewmember activated NaSBE, and then the experiment was controlled by the GSFC Payload Operations Control Center (POCC).
The Turbulent Gas Jet Diffusion Flames (TGDF) payload was a secondary payload that used the standard Get Away Special carrier. Its purpose was to gain an understanding of the fundamental characteristics of transitional and turbulent gas jet diffusion flames under microgravity conditions and to acquire data to aid in predicting the behavior of transitional and turbulent gas jet diffusion flames under normal and microgravity environments. TGDF imposed large-scale controlled disturbances on well-defined laminar microgravity diffusion flames. They were on axisymmetric perturbations to laminar flames. The variables for the proposed tests were the frequency of the disturbance mechanism, which was either 2.5 Hz, 5 Hz, or 7.5 Hz.
The Get Away Special (GAS G-036) payload canister contained four separate experiments that hydrated cement samples, recorded configuration stability of fluid samples, and exposed computer discs, compact discs, and asphalt samples to exosphere conditions in the cargo bay of the orbiter. The experiments were the Cement Mixing Experiment (CME), the Configuration Stability of Fluid Experiment (CSFE), the Computer Compact Disc Evaluation Experiment (CDEE), and the Asphalt Evaluation Experiment (AEE).
The Extended Duration Orbiter (EDO) Pallet was a 15-foot (4.6 m) diameter cryo-kit wafer structure. Weighing 352 kilograms (776 lb), it provided support for tanks, associated control panels, and avionics equipment. The tanks stored 167 kilograms (368 lb) of liquid hydrogen at −250 degrees Celsius, and 1,417 kilograms (3,124 lb) of liquid oxygen at −176 degrees Celsius. The total empty mass of the system was 1,620 kilograms (3,570 lb). When filled with cryogens, system mass was approximately 3,200 kilograms (7,100 lb). Oxygen and hydrogen were supplied to the orbiter's three electrical power generating fuel cells, where they were converted into sufficient electrical energy to support the average four family-member house for approximately six months. About 1,360 kilograms (3,000 lb) of pure drinking water was also produced by the fuel cells. With the EDO pallet, the orbiter could support a flight for a maximum of 18 days. Longer on-orbit missions benefit microgravity research, life sciences research, Earth and celestial observations, human adaptation to the zero-G environment, and support to the Space Station.
The mid-deck Glove Box (MGBX) was a facility designed for materials science and biological science experiment handling. It consisted of two primary systems; an Interface Frame (IF) and a Glovebox (GB). The MGBX facility (with associated electronics) provided an enclosed working area for experimental manipulation and observation on the shuttle mid-deck. The MGBX experiments on this flight were WCI – The objective of the Wetting Characteristics of Immiscibles was to investigate the influence of alloy/ampoule wetting characteristics on the segregation of immiscible liquids during microgravity processing. The Enclosed Laminar Flames (ELF) experiment objective was to validate the zero-gravity Burke-Schumann model and the gravity-dependent Hegde-Bahadori extension of the model, investigate the importance of the buoyancy-dependent flow field as affected by oxidizer flow on flame stabilization, examine the state relationships of co-flow diffusion flames under the influence of buoyancy conditions (gravity versus pressure), and study the flow vortex and diffusion flame interactions. The Particle Engulfment and Pushing by Solidifying Interfaces (PEP) experiment objectives were to generate an accurate value for the critical velocity in a convection-free environment, validate the present theoretical model, enhance fundamental understanding of dynamics of insoluble particles at liquid/solid interfaces, and improve understanding of the physics associated with the solidification of liquid metals-ceramic particles mixtures.
The Collaborative Ukraine Experiment (CUE) was a mid-deck payload designed to study the effects of microgravity on plant growth. The CUE was composed of a group of experiments flown in the Plant Growth Facility (PGF) and in the Biological Research in Canisters (BRIC). The experiments also required the use of a Gaseous Nitrogen (GN2) Freezer and the fixation hardware. Investigators in Ukraine and the United States (Kansas State University and Louisiana State University) selected the experiments as a model for scientific collaboration between the two countries. The PGF supported plant growth for up to 30 days by providing acceptable environmental conditions for normal plant growth. The PGF was composed of the following subsystems: Control and Data Management Subsystems (CDMS), Fluorescent Light Module (FLM), Atmospheric Control Module (ACM), Plant Growth Chambers (PGCs), Support Structure Assembly (SSA), and the Generic External Shell (GES). The complete PGF replaced one mid-deck locker and operated on 28 V direct current (dc) power. The plant specimen studied in the PGF was Brassica rapa (turnip).
The Extravehicular Activity Development Flight Test – 05 (EDFT-05) consisted of the payload bay hardware elements of Detailed Test Objective (DTO) 671, EVA Hardware for Future Scheduled Extravehicular Missions. EDFT – 05's main objective was to demonstrate International Space Station (ISS) on-orbit, end-to-end EVA assembly, and maintenance operations. The other DTOs included in this test were DTO 672, Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Electrical Cuff Checklist and DTO 833, EMU Thermal Comfort, and EVA Worksite Thermal Environment. Another objective was to expand the EVA experience base for ground and flight crews. Two EVA's were performed on this mission to accomplish these DTOs.
The Autonomous EVA Robotic Camera/Sprint (AERCam/Sprint) was a small, unobtrusive, free-flying camera platform for use outside a spacecraft. The free-flyer had a self-contained cold gas propulsion system giving it the capability to be propelled with 6 degrees of the freedom control system. Onboard the free-flyer were rate sensors to provide data for an automatic attitude hold capability. AERCam/Sprint was a spherical vehicle that moved slowly and was covered in a soft cushioning material to prevent damage in the event of an impact. The design philosophy was to keep the energy low by keeping the velocities and mass low while providing a mechanism to absorb any energy from an impact. The free-flyer platform was controlled from inside the Orbiter by using a small control station. The operator input motion commands from a single, Aid For EVA Rescue (SAFER) device controller. The commands were sent from the control station to the free-flyer via a Radio Frequency (RF) modem link operating in the ultra-high frequency (UHF) range.
The mission marked a lesser-known first for having a comic book character being created for a space-going mission, the first to actually fly into space, and the first to safely return to Earth. The sponsor and manager of the Enclosed Laminar Flames experiment, Lewis Stocker, noticed the experiment's abbreviation as ELF and, being an avowed reader of the comic book series Elfquest, asked the series' creators Richard and Wendy Pini to create a logo. Originally, he hoped the series' own stargazer, Skywise, could be used, but to avoid copyright issues, a unique character was created to accompany the experiment insignia, whose name was dubbed Starfire.[2][3]
 This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
The Treaty of Töplitz (other spellings: Treaty of Toeplitz, Treaty of Toplitz) was signed in Töplitz on 9 September 1813, between Russia, Austria, and Prussia. The purpose of the agreement was to establish and strengthen a united coalition force against Napoleon I of France. Based on the terms of the accord, all signatories agreed to support each other with 60,000 troops. Another Treaty of Töplitz was signed between Great Britain and Austria.[1]
The Emblem of West Bengal is the official seal of the government of the Indian state of West Bengal.[1]
The emblem consists of a circle depicting a globe with the state of West Bengal highlighted by a representation of the Bengali alphabet. The National Emblem of India appears above the globe and the emblem includes the name of the state in English (i.e. West Bengal) and in the Bengali language (i.e. Bengali: পশ্চিমবঙ্গ, romanized: Pôśchim Bôṅgô). The central element of the emblem was also used by the state government's Biswa Bangla campaign to promote the sale of traditional Bengali handicrafts and textiles.[2]
The current emblem was designed by Mamata Banerjee, the Chief Minister of the state and was officially adopted in January 2018.[3][4] Prior to the adoption of the new emblem in 2018, the state government used the National Emblem of India for official purposes but had adopted a distinctive logo for marketing purposes. This logo, known as "Banglarmukh" (Face of Bengal), depicted a female face surround by a red veil.[5]
West Bengal has one autonomous district council, the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, which adopted its own emblem in October 2014. The emblem is a circular seal featuring a locomotive of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, a woman picking tea leaves, a rhododendron flower and mountain peaks of the Himalayas surrounded by the name of the authority and two pairs of crossed Kukri daggers.[6][7]
The Government of West Bengal can be represented by a banner displaying the emblem of the state on a white field.[8]
This article about government in India is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
Nocturne is the third EP by South Korean boy band 2AM. It was released in November 27, 2013 with the song "Regret" as the title track.[1] 
Prior to the official release of their third EP, 2AM  pre-released 'Just Stay' from their third mini album 'Nocturne' on November 19, 2013.[2]
'Just Stay' is a soft R&B that is calm and soothing. It is about a girl who is having troubles with her lover and a man who is in love with that girl.
The song 'Only You' is reminiscent of nineties K-Pop and R&B, which makes this one of the standout tracks in regard to the evolution of 2AM. 'To An Angel' is also more uptempo than the songs that 2AM is known for and is a solid pop song. 'You’re Prettier The More I See You' is very jazzy. It's the last 2AM album to be released under Big Hit, before their transition back to JYP Entertainment.
Christoph Zielinski (born May 20, 1952 in Wieliczka near Kraków, Poland[1]) is an Austrian physician and cancer researcher. A medical oncologist, Zielinski is Director of the Clinical Division of Oncology and Chairman of the Department of Medicine I and the Comprehensive Cancer Centre at the Medical University of Vienna.
Zielinski is the son of the writer Adam Zielinski and his wife Sophie. In 1957 he came to Vienna with his parents where he finished schooling in 1970. He studied medicine at Medical University of Vienna and received his MD degree in 1976.
Apart from two years as a fellow at the Cancer Research Center at Tufts University his career has been spent at Medical University of Vienna. He became Professor of Medical Experimental Oncology in 1992, Chairman of the Clinical Division of Oncology in 2002 and Director of the Department of Medicine I in 2004.[2] Outside his work in Vienna, Zielinski was named President of the Central European Cooperative Oncology Group since 1999 and became a member of the Executive Board of the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) in 2014.
Zielinski's research focuses on clinical trials in breast and lung cancer as well as personalised medicine and immuno-oncology. Christoph Zielinski is President of the Central European Cooperative Oncology Group (CECOG). As of late 2018 he had published more than 600 original publications and reviews. His h-index exceeds 60.[3]
ESMO announced in September 2015 that Zielinski would be Editor-in-Chief of ESMO Open, the Society's new peer-reviewed, open-access, online-only journal which is currently in the third year of its existence, is listed in PubMed and has experienced more than 720.000 downloads of published papers.[4]